
  

# 208. Implement Trie (Prefix Tree)

  

  

## Question:

  

Implement a trie with  `insert`,  `search`, and  `startsWith`  methods.

**Example:**

Trie trie = new Trie();

trie.insert("apple");
trie.search("apple");   // returns true
trie.search("app");     // returns false
trie.startsWith("app"); // returns true
trie.insert("app");   
trie.search("app");     // returns true

**Note:**

-   You may assume that all inputs are consist of lowercase letters  `a-z`.
-   All inputs are guaranteed to be non-empty strings.
## Solution:

  

**Approach 1: Trie **
There are several other data structures, like **balanced trees** and **hash tables**, which give us the possibility to search for a word in a dataset of strings. Then why do we need trie? Although hash table has O(1) time complexity for looking for a key, it is not efficient in the following operations:

-   Finding all keys with a common prefix.
-   Enumerating a dataset of strings in lexicographical order.

Another reason why trie outperforms hash table, is that as hash table increases in size, there are lots of hash collisions and the search time complexity could deteriorate to O(n), where n is the number of keys inserted. Trie could use less space compared to Hash Table when storing many keys with the same prefix. In this case using trie has only O(m) time complexity, where m is the key length. Searching for a key in a balanced tree costs O(mlogn) time complexity.

```python
class TrieNode:
    # Initialize your data structure here.
    def __init__(self):
        self.children = collections.defaultdict(TrieNode)
        self.is_word = False

class Trie:

    def __init__(self):
        self.root = TrieNode()

    def insert(self, word):
        current = self.root
        for letter in word:
            current = current.children[letter]
        current.is_word = True

    def search(self, word):
        current = self.root
        for letter in word:
            current = current.children.get(letter)
            if current is None:
                return False
        return current.is_word

    def startsWith(self, prefix):
        current = self.root
        for letter in prefix:
            current = current.children.get(letter)
            if current is None:
                return False
        return True
```
About `defaultdict` used in this case:
Usually, a Python dictionary throws a `KeyError` if you try to get an item with a key that is not currently in the dictionary. The `defaultdict` in contrast will simply create any items that you try to access (provided of course they do not exist yet).
  

**Complexity Analysis**

  

TC:O(m) In each step of the algorithm we search for the next key character. In the worst case the algorithm performs m operations (max length).

  

SC:O(1) Constant space used for operations. O(m) space usage for storing the data.
