
# 1354. Construct Target Array With Multiple Sums

## Question:
Given an array of integers `target`. From a starting array,  `A` consisting of all 1's, you may perform the following procedure :

-   let  `x`  be the sum of all elements currently in your array.
-   choose index  `i`, such that `0 <= i < target.size`  and set the value of  `A`  at index  `i`  to  `x`.
-   You may repeat this procedure as many times as needed.

Return True if it is possible to construct the  `target`  array from  `A`  otherwise return False.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** target = [9,3,5]
**Output:** true
**Explanation:** Start with [1, 1, 1] 
[1, 1, 1], sum = 3 choose index 1
[1, 3, 1], sum = 5 choose index 2
[1, 3, 5], sum = 9 choose index 0
[9, 3, 5] Done

**Example 2:**

**Input:** target = [1,1,1,2]
**Output:** false
**Explanation:** Impossible to create target array from [1,1,1,1].

**Example 3:**

**Input:** target = [8,5]
**Output:** true

**Constraints:**

-   `N == target.length`
-   `1 <= target.length <= 5 * 10^4`
-   `1 <= target[i] <= 10^9`
## Solution:

**Approach 1: Priority Queue**
The hint points to this direction. We are reverse the process here. Each step, we make the largest num decrease to previous value. To avoid constantly search maximum value/sorting. We can directly keep a priority queue.

However, this is still not optimized enough to pass all cases. For example, on `[1,1000000000]`, it will TLE due to too many calculations.

```python
class Solution:
    def isPossible(self, target: List[int]) -> bool:
        pq, currSum, baseSum = [], sum(target), len(target)
        for num in target:
            heapq.heappush(pq, -num)
        while currSum > baseSum:
            largestNum = -heapq.heappop(pq)
            prevNum = largestNum-(currSum-largestNum)
            # not possible, we can stop
            if prevNum < 1:
                return False
            heapq.heappush(pq, -prevNum)
            currSum = currSum-largestNum+prevNum
        # it went trough as all 1s now
        return True
```
  
**Complexity Analysis**

  

TC:O(n^2) for each value, we might go up to n steps. constructing heap takes O(n) -> O(logn) depending on implementation

SC:O(n) our heap size

----------

**Approach 2: Priority Queue Optimized**

But at this point, we'll still obtain a **TLE** result and will need to optimize some more. Consider the situation in which we process the max value only to find that we're about to reinsert a number that is _still_ the max value. In some edge cases, it could take thousands of iterations to fully process this value so that we can move on to another, when all that processing can be done more simply in one step.

Take, for example,  **target = [3,5,33]**. Normally, we'd remove the  **33**  and compute its replacement to be  **25**, then from  **25**  to  **17**, then  **17**  to  **9**, then finally  **9**  to  **1**. Each time, we're removing the sum of all the remaining values (**3 + 5 = 8**) from the current number. In any valid target array, as we noted at the very beginning, the max value  _must_  be larger than the sum of the remaining elements, since it came from that sum plus the value that was replaced.

That means that we should be able to remove the remaining sum (**8**) from our current max value (**33**) as many times as we possibly can, since only the remainder will bring us below that sum. This we can achieve quite easily with the  **mod operator**  which will result in our replacement value (**33 % 8 = 1**) without the need to iterate through every step.

```python
class Solution:
    def isPossible(self, target: List[int]) -> bool:
        heap = [-num for num in target]
        total = sum(target)
        heapify(heap)
        while heap[0] != -1:
            num = -heappop(heap)
            total -= num
            if num <= total or total < 1: return False
            num %= total
            total += num
            heappush(heap, -num or -total)
        return True

```
**Complexity Analysis**

  

TC: O(maxA*logMaxA*logN)
Time `O(N)` to build up the priority queue.  
Time `O(logMaxAlogN))` for the reducing value part.  
We have `O(maxA)` loops, which is similar to `gcd`

SC:O(n) Our heap size
