
# 315. Count of Smaller Numbers After Self

## Question

You are given an integer array  `nums`  and you have to return a new  `counts`  array. The  `counts`  array has the property where  `counts[i]`  is the number of smaller elements to the right of  `nums[i]`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [5,2,6,1]
**Output:** [2,1,1,0]
**Explanation:**
To the right of 5 there are **2** smaller elements (2 and 1).
To the right of 2 there is only **1** smaller element (1).
To the right of 6 there is **1** smaller element (1).
To the right of 1 there is **0** smaller element.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [-1]
**Output:** [0]

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = [-1,-1]
**Output:** [0,0]

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 105`
- `-104  <= nums[i] <= 104`

## Solution

### Approach 1: Sorted List

#### Intuition

To avoid looping through and finding the numbers on the right that are smaller for every number. We can maintain a sorted list.
For each number, we search for the index to insert (equals to numbers that are smaller). And insert it into correct position to maintain sorted list.

#### Algorithm

1. Loop through the numbers backwards and maintain a sorted list of visited numbers
2. For each number, search for and record numbers that are smaller than it in list before put it in.
3. Reverse the numbers we get since we are looping backwards.

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def countSmaller(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        sortedNums = []
        res = []
        for i in range(len(nums)-1, -1, -1):
            res.append(bisect.bisect_left(sortedNums, nums[i]))
            bisect.insort_left(sortedNums, nums[i])
        return res[::-1]
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:** O(nlogn)
  - One pass takes O(n)
  - Binary search takes O(logn)
  
- **Space Complexity:** O(n), Our sorted list and result list
