# 403. Frog Jump

## Question

A frog is crossing a river. The river is divided into some number of units, and at each unit, there may or may not exist a stone. The frog can jump on a stone, but it must not jump into the water.

Given a list of  `stones`' positions (in units) in sorted  **ascending order**, determine if the frog can cross the river by landing on the last stone. Initially, the frog is on the first stone and assumes the first jump must be  `1`  unit.

If the frog's last jump was  `k`  units, its next jump must be either  `k - 1`,  `k`, or  `k + 1`  units. The frog can only jump in the forward direction.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** stones = [0,1,3,5,6,8,12,17]
**Output:** true
**Explanation:** The frog can jump to the last stone by jumping 1 unit to the 2nd stone, then 2 units to the 3rd stone, then 2 units to the 4th stone, then 3 units to the 6th stone, 4 units to the 7th stone, and 5 units to the 8th stone.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** stones = [0,1,2,3,4,8,9,11]
**Output:** false
**Explanation:** There is no way to jump to the last stone as the gap between the 5th and 6th stone is too large.

**Constraints:**

- `2 <= stones.length <= 2000`
- `0 <= stones[i] <= 231  - 1`
- `stones[0] == 0`
- `stones` is sorted in a strictly increasing order.

## Solution

### Approach 1: DFS/Backtrack + memo

#### Intuition

Since at each stone, we might have different jumps that our next jump will base on. We can't avoid calculations for those cases.
However, if we include both current location and jump in our state. Then, we can skip calculations for same state since it will generate same paths. Which is redundant calculation that can be optimized.

#### Algorithm

1. Create our dfs/backtrack function with currLocation and currJump as state(params)
2. Add memo to our dfs/backtrack
3. Calculate for all possible paths

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def canCross(self, stones: List[int]) -> bool:
        if stones[1] != stones[0]+1:
            return False
        maxDistance, maxJump = 0, 1
        for i in range(len(stones)):
            maxDistance+=maxJump
            maxJump+=1
        minDistance = len(stones)-1
        if maxDistance<stones[len(stones)-1] or minDistance>stones[len(stones)-1]:
            return False
        stonesSet = set(stones)
        # jump
        @cache
        def backtrack(currLocation, jump):
            # check if we at the end
            if currLocation == stones[len(stones)-1]:
                return True
            # try to move
            for possibleJump in range(jump+1, max(jump-1,1)-1, -1):
                # check state
                if currLocation+possibleJump in stonesSet:
                    if backtrack(currLocation+possibleJump, possibleJump):
                        return True
                # fail, backtrack
        if backtrack(stones[1], 1):
            return True
        return False
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(n^2)` , worse case, we will have O(n) location and O(n) jumps, which combine to O(n^2) states to check

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n^2)` , same as above. Worse case we will have O(n^2) recursion call stacks
