
# 630. Course Schedule III

## Question:


There are  `n`  different online courses numbered from  `1`  to  `n`. You are given an array  `courses`  where  `courses[i] = [durationi, lastDayi]`  indicate that the  `ith`  course should be taken  **continuously**  for  `durationi`  days and must be finished before or on  `lastDayi`.

You will start on the  `1st`  day and you cannot take two or more courses simultaneously.

Return  _the maximum number of courses that you can take_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** courses = [[100,200],[200,1300],[1000,1250],[2000,3200]]
**Output:** 3
Explanation: 
There are totally 4 courses, but you can take 3 courses at most:
First, take the 1st course, it costs 100 days so you will finish it on the 100th day, and ready to take the next course on the 101st day.
Second, take the 3rd course, it costs 1000 days so you will finish it on the 1100th day, and ready to take the next course on the 1101st day. 
Third, take the 2nd course, it costs 200 days so you will finish it on the 1300th day. 
The 4th course cannot be taken now, since you will finish it on the 3300th day, which exceeds the closed date.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** courses = [[1,2]]
**Output:** 1

**Example 3:**

**Input:** courses = [[3,2],[4,3]]
**Output:** 0

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= courses.length <= 104`
-   `1 <= durationi, lastDayi  <= 104`
## Solution:

**Approach 1: DP + Greedy + Priority Queue**
First thought for this question is that we should have a dp solution. Since we will have a best solution on `n` courses and it somewhat depends on our best solution from `n-1` courses. 

However, with no changes in order, deadline can be larger/smaller for the `nth` course. Which means if we don't do any optimization, we will need to check all courses to get the new best solution and defeat our purpose of dp. If we sort by deadline and make sure `n+1th` course has deadline >= `nth` course. We just need to consider what to do with the new `duration` and `deadline` of `n+1th` course, as well as `currentTime` and `courses` taken at `nth`.

And that's where greedy comes in handy. We have two options:

 - Take this course if our new `currentTime`is still <= latest `deadline`. Since we should take more courses if we can.
 - We can't simply take this course since our new `currentTime`will be > latest `deadline`. However, we can potentially replace a longer course with this one if there is any. Since we should make `currentTime` lower for same number of courses.
 
One last optimization to do is how to store the `courses` taken:
 - Since we need to get the max-length `course` often. Simple linear search in array will take us O(n) time. But insert will be O(1)
 - However, if we keep a sorted list on `courses` taken based on `duration` first and then `deadline` on tie, we can search the max-length `course` by returning first one which is O(1). For insert, we can utilize binary search which takes O(logn) time. 

Obviously, we should take 2nd approach. In another word, a priority queue (heap).

Since python use `minHeap`, we store `-duration` to keep correct order. And to simplify our logic, we always store the course first. If we have `currentTime` > latest `deadline`, we pop out the longest duration course (potentially the one we just push in for the case where there is no course to replace)

```python
class Solution:
    def scheduleCourse(self, courses: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        # greedy approach, we try courses with earlier deadline
        courses.sort(key=lambda x:(x[1], x[0]))
        # use priority queue (min heap) to keep course list
        # priority will be our course length (smaller is better)
        currentTime, pq = 0, []
        for duration, deadline in courses:
            # count curr one in, if
            # not valid we will swap
            currentTime+=duration
            # Add to our res heap
            # use - since its min heap in python
            heapq.heappush(pq, -duration)
            # check if curr is valid
            if currentTime > deadline:
                # take out longest course from heap
                # can be a swap or just undo our insert
                # we put -currentTime in, so we
                # should + to do minus
                currentTime += heapq.heappop(pq)
        return len(pq)
```
  
**Complexity Analysis**

  

TC:O(nlogn) Sort takes O(nlogn). Longest operation in loop is insert into heap which takes O(logn), which give total O(nlogn) as well.

SC:O(n) Our heap size
