
# 927. Three Equal Parts

## Question

You are given an array  `arr`  which consists of only zeros and ones, divide the array into  **three non-empty parts**  such that all of these parts represent the same binary value.

If it is possible, return any  `[i, j]`  with  `i + 1 < j`, such that:

- `arr[0], arr[1], ..., arr[i]`  is the first part,
- `arr[i + 1], arr[i + 2], ..., arr[j - 1]`  is the second part, and
- `arr[j], arr[j + 1], ..., arr[arr.length - 1]`  is the third part.
- All three parts have equal binary values.

If it is not possible, return  `[-1, -1]`.

Note that the entire part is used when considering what binary value it represents. For example,  `[1,1,0]`  represents  `6`  in decimal, not  `3`. Also, leading zeros  **are allowed**, so  `[0,1,1]`  and  `[1,1]`  represent the same value.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** arr = [1,0,1,0,1]
**Output:** [0,3]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** arr = [1,1,0,1,1]
**Output:** [-1,-1]

**Example 3:**

**Input:** arr = [1,1,0,0,1]
**Output:** [0,2]

**Constraints:**

- `3 <= arr.length <= 3 * 104`
- `arr[i]`  is  `0`  or  `1`

## Solution

### Approach 1: Prefix + Suffix

#### Intuition

For this question, we can only have answer if the 1s can be divided by 3 (not guaranteed to have solution).

All 0 is a special case, we can simply return anything. We return (0, 2), since it takes care of all cases under this constraints.

For each one of the substring, our selection of breaking points determines suffix 0s (Since prefix of 0s won't affect the answer). Since all substrings need to cover `n` 1s, we just need to verify whether we can break at p1, p2 between `nth` and `n+1th` as well as `2nth` and `2n+1th` 1s.

As we mentioned above, prefix 0s don't matter. And our last substring will have fixed suffix 0s. We just need to verify whether we have enough 0s for `1st` and `2nd` substrings to match `3rd` one

#### Algorithm

1. Let us check all the places, where we have  `1.`  Let us have  `m`  elements such that.
2. If  `m == 0`, it means that we have all zeroes, so we can split in any way, let us split it  `[0, 2]`.
3. If  `m`  is not divisible by  `3`, we can return  `[-1, -1]`  immediately, because if we can have three equal parts, number of ones in these parts must be the same.
4. Let us find now  `6`  indexes:  `p1, p2, p3, p4, p5, p6`, where  `p1`  is index of first  `1`,  `p2`  is index of last one in first part,  `p3`  is index of first one in second part, and so on. Then it is necessary that  `A[p1:p2+1]`  equal to  `A[p3:p4+1]`  equal to  `A[p5:p6+1]`. Note that is is not sufficient though, because we can add some zeroes in the ends. So, if this condition do not holds, we return  `[-1, -1]`.
5. Evaluate lengths of how many zeros we can add in the end:  `l1, l2, l3`. For  `l3`  we do not have any choice: we need to take all there zeroes. For  `l1`  and  `l2`  we can put zeroes in the beginning of one number or to the end of the next, so the options we have are:  `[0, ..., l1]`  for the first,  `[0, ..., l2]`  for the second and  `[l3]`  for third. So, if  `l3 > l2`  or  `l3 > l1`, we can not make parts equal and we return  `[-1, -1]`.
6. In the end return  `[p2 + l3, p4 + l3 + 1]`, in this way in each part we have  `l3`  zeroes in the end.

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def threeEqualParts(self, A):
        n = len(A)
        indexes = [i for i in range(n) if A[i] == 1]
        m = len(indexes)
        
        if m == 0: return [0, 2]
        
        if m % 3 != 0: return [-1, -1]
        p1, p2 = indexes[0], indexes[m//3-1]
        p3, p4 = indexes[m//3], indexes[2*m//3-1]
        p5, p6 = indexes[2*m//3], indexes[-1]
        part1, part2, part3 = A[p1:p2+1], A[p3:p4+1], A[p5:p6+1]
        
        if part1 != part2 or part2 != part3: return [-1, -1]
        
        l1 = p3 - p2 - 1
        l2 = p5 - p4 - 1
        l3 = n - p6 - 1
        
        if l3 > l2 or l3 > l1: return [-1, -1]
        
        return [p2 + l3, p4 + l3 + 1]
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:** `O(n)`, One pass to find all 1s
  
- **Space Complexity:** `O(n)`, Store index of 1s
