# 1029. Two City Scheduling

## Question

A company is planning to interview  `2n`  people. Given the array  `costs`  where  `costs[i] = [aCosti, bCosti]`, the cost of flying the  `ith`  person to city  `a`  is  `aCosti`, and the cost of flying the  `ith`  person to city  `b`  is  `bCosti`.

Return  _the minimum cost to fly every person to a city_  such that exactly  `n`  people arrive in each city.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** costs = [[10,20],[30,200],[400,50],[30,20]]
**Output:** 110
**Explanation:**
The first person goes to city A for a cost of 10.
The second person goes to city A for a cost of 30.
The third person goes to city B for a cost of 50.
The fourth person goes to city B for a cost of 20.

The total minimum cost is 10 + 30 + 50 + 20 = 110 to have half the people interviewing in each city.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** costs = [[259,770],[448,54],[926,667],[184,139],[840,118],[577,469]]
**Output:** 1859

**Example 3:**

**Input:** costs = [[515,563],[451,713],[537,709],[343,819],[855,779],[457,60],[650,359],[631,42]]
**Output:** 3086

**Constraints:**

- `2 * n == costs.length`
- `2 <= costs.length <= 100`
- `costs.length`  is even.
- `1 <= aCosti, bCosti  <= 1000`

## Solution

### Approach 1: Greedy

#### Intuition

For each person, we essentially need to pick city A or city B. And we acn compare the cost directly to make the decision.
Now think about all people. To make a decision at one point, we should decide based on the difference in the cost. Putting one person in a wrong city will cost us the difference compare to if we put him in the other option. We can minimize the cost for city A by ranking the diffs. The rest will go to city B(its the same if we start with city B, the diff will just be `0 - the same value`)

#### Algorithm

1. Create a diff array the hold the diff(cost[0]-cost[1]) and original array index
2. Sort them, and pick first n using cost[0] for the person.
3. Fill the rest n with cost[1] for the person.

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def twoCitySchedCost(self, costs: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        costDiffs = [[cost[0] - cost[1], i] for i, cost in enumerate(costs)]
        costDiffs.sort()
        res = 0
        for i in range(len(costDiffs)):
            cityIndex = costDiffs[i][1]
            if i < len(costDiffs)//2:
                res += costs[cityIndex][0]
            else:
                res += costs[cityIndex][1]
        return res
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(nlogn)` , Bottleneck is the sort. Then we do a one pass.

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)` , extra array to hold the diffs
