
# 1048. Longest String Chain

  

## Question


Given a list of words, each word consists of English lowercase letters.

Let's say  `word1`  is a predecessor of  `word2`  if and only if we can add exactly one letter anywhere in  `word1`  to make it equal to  `word2`. For example,  `"abc"`  is a predecessor of  `"abac"`.

A  _word chain_ is a sequence of words  `[word_1, word_2, ..., word_k]`  with  `k >= 1`, where  `word_1`  is a predecessor of  `word_2`,  `word_2`  is a predecessor of  `word_3`, and so on.

Return the longest possible length of a word chain with words chosen from the given list of  `words`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** words = ["a","b","ba","bca","bda","bdca"]
**Output:** 4
**Explanation**: One of the longest word chain is "a","ba","bda","bdca".

**Example 2:**

**Input:** words = ["xbc","pcxbcf","xb","cxbc","pcxbc"]
**Output:** 5

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= words.length <= 1000`
-   `1 <= words[i].length <= 16`
-   `words[i]`  only consists of English lowercase letters.
  

## Solution

  

### Approach 1: DP with memorization


#### Intuition
First of all, we can extend string chain if next string is 1 char longer than prev string and the difference is one char from `a` to `z` in any position. Thus, we can adopt a dp approach if we go through the words in correct order.

However, that will need a lot of checking as we will generate `26^len(prev string)` words to be checked with all words. We can go from longer word to shorter word and adopt set to reduce look up time.

Finally, we should also add memorization for previous calculated values

#### Algorithm
We try to get max length starting from each word (by checking if we have shorter possible word). Then we return the maximum of all the possible results.

```python
class Solution:
    def longestStrChain(self, words: List[str]) -> int:
        set_words = set(words)
        
        # memorize calculated results
        @lru_cache(None)
        def dp(word):
            return max((dp(test) for i in range(len(word)) if (test := word[:i] + word[i+1:]) in set_words), default=0) + 1
        
        return max(dp(word) for word in words)
```

  

#### Complexity Analysis

  

-  **Time Complexity:** O(n*L*L), where `n` is number of words and `L` is the biggest length of the word: for word of length `L` we need to check `L-1` candidates, all of them with length `L-1`
  

-  **Space Complexity:** O(n*L), because we still need to keep all words in our hash, which will take `O(nL)` place in the worst case.