
# 1268. Search Suggestions System

  

## Question


Given an array of strings  `products`  and a string  `searchWord`. We want to design a system that suggests at most three product names from  `products` after each character of `searchWord`  is typed. Suggested products should have common prefix with the searchWord. If there are more than three products with a common prefix return the three lexicographically minimums products.

Return  _list of lists_  of the suggested  `products`  after each character of `searchWord`  is typed.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** products = ["mobile","mouse","moneypot","monitor","mousepad"], searchWord = "mouse"
**Output:** [
["mobile","moneypot","monitor"],
["mobile","moneypot","monitor"],
["mouse","mousepad"],
["mouse","mousepad"],
["mouse","mousepad"]
]
**Explanation:** products sorted lexicographically = ["mobile","moneypot","monitor","mouse","mousepad"]
After typing m and mo all products match and we show user ["mobile","moneypot","monitor"]
After typing mou, mous and mouse the system suggests ["mouse","mousepad"]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** products = ["havana"], searchWord = "havana"
**Output:** [["havana"],["havana"],["havana"],["havana"],["havana"],["havana"]]

**Example 3:**

**Input:** products = ["bags","baggage","banner","box","cloths"], searchWord = "bags"
**Output:** [["baggage","bags","banner"],["baggage","bags","banner"],["baggage","bags"],["bags"]]

**Example 4:**

**Input:** products = ["havana"], searchWord = "tatiana"
**Output:** [[],[],[],[],[],[],[]]

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= products.length <= 1000`
-   There are no repeated elements in `products`.
-   `1 <= Σ products[i].length <= 2 * 10^4`
-   All characters of  `products[i]`  are lower-case English letters.
-   `1 <= searchWord.length <= 1000`
-   All characters of  `searchWord` are lower-case English letters.
## Solution

  

### Approach 1: Sort + 2 pointers

#### Intuition
We are actually narrowing down the search range while processing through search string. And each time, we count up to 3 words in sorted order.

We can sort all our words and use two pointers idea. Then we add letter by letter from our word  `searchWord`  and adjust our searching range  `[beg, end]`. If  `len(products[beg])`  is less or equal to  `i`, it means that word we have in current index of  `P`  is too short, so we need to more  `beg`  to the right. Also if we have  `products[beg][i] != c`, it means that current index is not good either, so we need to move it to the right as well. Similar logic is done for  `end`  pointer.

In the end of each iteration we have the property, that words in range  `[beg, end]`  have the same  `i`  starting letter with  `W`. So, we try to choose  `3`  words or less if it is not possible (it can be  `0`  words as well, if  `[beg, end]`  is empty.

#### Algorithm
1. Sort products
2. For each char in searchWord, narrow down our search range
3. Add up to 3 words in our search range to res array

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def suggestedProducts(self, products: List[str], searchWord: str) -> List[List[str]]:
        products.sort()
        beg, end, ans = 0, len(products) - 1, []

        for i, c in enumerate(searchWord):
            while beg <= end and (len(products[beg]) <= i or products[beg][i] != c):
                beg += 1
                
            while beg <= end and (len(products[end]) <= i or products[end][i] != c):
                end -= 1
                
            ans.append(products[beg:min(end+1, beg+3)])

        return ans
```

#### Complexity Analysis

  

-  **Time Complexity:** O(L * n * log n + m * L), while `m = len(searchWord)`, `n = len(products)`
	- O(L * n * log n) for sorting
	- O(m * L) for one pass to find 3 words
  

-  **Space Complexity:** O(n*L), while `m = len(searchWord)`, `n = len(products)`