
# 1328. Break a Palindrome

## Question

Given a palindromic string of lowercase English letters  `palindrome`, replace  **exactly one**  character with any lowercase English letter so that the resulting string is  **not**  a palindrome and that it is the  **lexicographically smallest**  one possible.

Return  _the resulting string. If there is no way to replace a character to make it not a palindrome, return an  **empty string**._

A string  `a`  is lexicographically smaller than a string  `b`  (of the same length) if in the first position where  `a`  and  `b`  differ,  `a`  has a character strictly smaller than the corresponding character in  `b`. For example,  `"abcc"`  is lexicographically smaller than  `"abcd"`  because the first position they differ is at the fourth character, and  `'c'`  is smaller than  `'d'`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** palindrome = "abccba"
**Output:** "aaccba"
**Explanation:** There are many ways to make "abccba" not a palindrome, such as "zbccba", "aaccba", and "abacba".
Of all the ways, "aaccba" is the lexicographically smallest.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** palindrome = "a"
**Output:** ""
**Explanation:** There is no way to replace a single character to make "a" not a palindrome, so return an empty string.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** palindrome = "aa"
**Output:** "ab"

**Example 4:**

**Input:** palindrome = "aba"
**Output:** "abb"

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= palindrome.length <= 1000`
- `palindrome`  consists of only lowercase English letters.

## Solution

### Approach 1: Onepass

#### Intuition

To break a palindrome by changing one char, we basically need to break the repeating part. Since we are looking for the smallest result. We should try to go down first. If thats not possible, we can consider go up

#### Algorithm

1. Loop through first repeating part and try to switch one non-'a' char to 'a' (smallest)
2. If not achievable, we have all 'a's in repeating part. Simply change last 'a' to 'b'

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def breakPalindrome(self, palindrome: str) -> str:
        if len(palindrome) == 1:
            return ''
        res = palindrome
        # go down if we can (we need to break the repeating part)
        for i in range(len(palindrome)//2):
            if palindrome[i] != 'a':
                res = res[:i]+'a'+res[i+1:]
                return res
        # go up if all 'a'
        res = res[:-1]+'b'
        return res
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(n)`,  One pass

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)`, To store our result
