
  

# 1396. Design Underground System

## Question:


Implement the  `UndergroundSystem`  class:

-   `void checkIn(int id, string stationName, int t)`
    -   A customer with a card id equal to  `id`, gets in the station  `stationName`  at time  `t`.
    -   A customer can only be checked into one place at a time.
-   `void checkOut(int id, string stationName, int t)`
    -   A customer with a card id equal to  `id`, gets out from the station  `stationName`  at time  `t`.
-   `double getAverageTime(string startStation, string endStation)`
    -   Returns the average time to travel between the  `startStation`  and the  `endStation`.
    -   The average time is computed from all the previous traveling from  `startStation`  to  `endStation`  that happened  **directly**.
    -   Call to  `getAverageTime`  is always valid.

You can assume all calls to  `checkIn`  and  `checkOut`  methods are consistent. If a customer gets in at time  **t1**  at some station, they get out at time  **t2**  with  **t2  > t1**. All events happen in chronological order.

**Example 1:**

**Input**
["UndergroundSystem","checkIn","checkIn","checkIn","checkOut","checkOut","checkOut","getAverageTime","getAverageTime","checkIn","getAverageTime","checkOut","getAverageTime"]
[[],[45,"Leyton",3],[32,"Paradise",8],[27,"Leyton",10],[45,"Waterloo",15],[27,"Waterloo",20],[32,"Cambridge",22],["Paradise","Cambridge"],["Leyton","Waterloo"],[10,"Leyton",24],["Leyton","Waterloo"],[10,"Waterloo",38],["Leyton","Waterloo"]]

**Output**
[null,null,null,null,null,null,null,14.00000,11.00000,null,11.00000,null,12.00000]

**Explanation**
UndergroundSystem undergroundSystem = new UndergroundSystem();
undergroundSystem.checkIn(45, "Leyton", 3);
undergroundSystem.checkIn(32, "Paradise", 8);
undergroundSystem.checkIn(27, "Leyton", 10);
undergroundSystem.checkOut(45, "Waterloo", 15);
undergroundSystem.checkOut(27, "Waterloo", 20);
undergroundSystem.checkOut(32, "Cambridge", 22);
undergroundSystem.getAverageTime("Paradise", "Cambridge");       // return 14.00000. There was only one travel from "Paradise" (at time 8) to "Cambridge" (at time 22)
undergroundSystem.getAverageTime("Leyton", "Waterloo");          // return 11.00000. There were two travels from "Leyton" to "Waterloo", a customer with id=45 from time=3 to time=15 and a customer with id=27 from time=10 to time=20. So the average time is ( (15-3) + (20-10) ) / 2 = 11.00000
undergroundSystem.checkIn(10, "Leyton", 24);
undergroundSystem.getAverageTime("Leyton", "Waterloo");          // return 11.00000
undergroundSystem.checkOut(10, "Waterloo", 38);
undergroundSystem.getAverageTime("Leyton", "Waterloo");          // return 12.00000

**Example 2:**

**Input**
["UndergroundSystem","checkIn","checkOut","getAverageTime","checkIn","checkOut","getAverageTime","checkIn","checkOut","getAverageTime"]
[[],[10,"Leyton",3],[10,"Paradise",8],["Leyton","Paradise"],[5,"Leyton",10],[5,"Paradise",16],["Leyton","Paradise"],[2,"Leyton",21],[2,"Paradise",30],["Leyton","Paradise"]]

**Output**
[null,null,null,5.00000,null,null,5.50000,null,null,6.66667]

**Explanation**
UndergroundSystem undergroundSystem = new UndergroundSystem();
undergroundSystem.checkIn(10, "Leyton", 3);
undergroundSystem.checkOut(10, "Paradise", 8);
undergroundSystem.getAverageTime("Leyton", "Paradise"); // return 5.00000
undergroundSystem.checkIn(5, "Leyton", 10);
undergroundSystem.checkOut(5, "Paradise", 16);
undergroundSystem.getAverageTime("Leyton", "Paradise"); // return 5.50000
undergroundSystem.checkIn(2, "Leyton", 21);
undergroundSystem.checkOut(2, "Paradise", 30);
undergroundSystem.getAverageTime("Leyton", "Paradise"); // return 6.66667

**Constraints:**

-   There will be at most  `20000`  operations.
-   `1 <= id, t <= 106`
-   All strings consist of uppercase and lowercase English letters, and digits.
-   `1 <= stationName.length <= 10`
-   Answers within  `10-5`  of the actual value will be accepted as correct.
## Solution:
**Approach 1: 2 Hashmaps**
We can use 1 HashMap to store checkin times for each user. And another hashmap to store total time and number of trips between available stations. Information are stored at checkouts. (We can use `tuple` as keys in Python `dict`)
```python
class UndergroundSystem:

    def __init__(self):
        self.timeDict=dict()
        self.userTimeTrackDict=dict()

    def checkIn(self, id: int, stationName: str, t: int) -> None:
        self.userTimeTrackDict[id] = (stationName, t)

    def checkOut(self, id: int, stationName: str, t: int) -> None:
        if (self.userTimeTrackDict[id][0],stationName) in self.timeDict:
            self.timeDict[(self.userTimeTrackDict[id][0],stationName)][0]+=t-self.userTimeTrackDict[id][1]
            self.timeDict[(self.userTimeTrackDict[id][0],stationName)][1]+=1
        else:
            self.timeDict[(self.userTimeTrackDict[id][0],stationName)] = [t-self.userTimeTrackDict[id][1], 1]

    def getAverageTime(self, startStation: str, endStation: str) -> float:
        return self.timeDict[(startStation, endStation)][0]/self.timeDict[(startStation, endStation)][1]
        

```

**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(1) using dict should reduce the time to access data down to O(1)


**SC** 
O(n) 2 dicts will be used which take up to O(n) space

---

**Approach 2: 1 HashMap**
The main difficulty of this problem is very long statement, and probably you will spend more time understanding what is asked that to code it. So, what we have here. We have several persons, defined by  `id`, which Check In at some  `station`  and some  `time`  and then Check Out from some other station at another time. We need to calculate times this person spend to go from one station to another and then calculate average time for all persons. Let us keep 3 pieces of information:

1.  `self.ids`  is dictionary, where for each person(id) we will keep pair  `(station, time)`  if the last action this person did is check In and empty if it was check OUt
2.  `self.pairs`  is counter, where for each pair of stations we keep total time spend between two stations.
3.  `self.freqs`  is counter, where for each pair of stations we keep how many trips we have between these two stations.

Now, let us discuss, what our functions will do:

1.  `checkIn(self, id, stationName, t)`: we just put pair  `(stationName, t)`  into  `self.ids[id]`.
2.  `checkOut(self, id, stationName, t)`. Here we look at person  `id`, extract information about his last station visited (pop it from  `self.ids[id]`  and update  `self.pairs`,  `self.freqs`  for these pairs of stations.
3.  `getAverageTime(self, startStation, endStation)`: here we just look at dictionaries  `self.pairs`  and  `self.freqs`  and directly return result.
```python
class UndergroundSystem:
    def __init__(self):
        self.ids = {}
        self.pairs = Counter()
        self.freqs = Counter()
        
    def checkIn(self, id, stationName, t):
        self.ids[id] = (stationName, t)

    def checkOut(self, id, stationName, t):
        Name2, t2 = self.ids.pop(id)
        self.pairs[(Name2, stationName)] += t-t2
        self.freqs[(Name2, stationName)] += 1
        
    def getAverageTime(self, startStation, endStation):
        return self.pairs[startStation, endStation]/self.freqs[startStation, endStation]
```

**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(1) Sliding window

**SC** 
O(Q) where `Q` is total number of queries.
