
  

# 152. Maximum Product Subarray

## Question:



Given an integer array `nums`, find the contiguous subarray within an array (containing at least one number) which has the largest product.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** [2,3,-2,4]
**Output:** `6`
**Explanation:** [2,3] has the largest product 6.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** [-2,0,-1]
**Output:** 0
**Explanation:** The result cannot be 2, because [-2,-1] is not a subarray.
## Solution:


**Approach 1: Kadane's algorithm**
Use [Kadane's algorithm](https://hackernoon.com/kadanes-algorithm-explained-50316f4fd8a6), we can find the maximum sub array sum of an array.
For this case, we need to alternate the algorithm a little bit:

First, if there's no zero in the array, then the subarray with maximum product must start with the first element or end with the last element. And therefore, the maximum product must be some prefix product or suffix product. So in this solution, we compute the prefix product  `A`  and suffix product  `B`, and simply return the maximum of  `A`  and  `B`.

Why? Here's the proof:

Say, we have a sub array  `A[i : j]`(`i != 0`,  `j != n`) and the product of elements inside is  `P`. Take  `P > 0`  for example: if  `A[i] > 0`  or  `A[j] > 0`, then obviously, we should extend this sub array to include  `A[i]`  or  `A[j]`; if both  `A[i]`  and  `A[j]`  are negative, then extending this sub array to include both  `A[i]`  and  `A[j]`  to get a larger product. Repeating this procedure and eventually we will reach the beginning or the end of  `A`.

What if there are zeroes in the array? Well, we can split the array into several smaller ones. That's to say, when the prefix product is  `0`, we start over and compute prefix product from the current element instead. And this is exactly what  `A[i] *= (A[i - 1]) or 1`  does.
```python
class Solution:
    def maxProduct(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        prefix, suffix, max_so_far = 0, 0, float('-inf')
        for i in range(len(nums)):
	        # if prefix becomes 0, we start a new
	        # prefix since we cannot pass 0
            prefix = (prefix or 1) * nums[i]
            # same for suffix
            suffix = (suffix or 1) * nums[~i]
            max_so_far = max(max_so_far, prefix, suffix)
        return max_so_far
```


**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(n​) One pass while calculating prefix and suffix.

**SC** 
O(1) Constant extra space
