# 1658. Minimum Operations to Reduce X to Zero

## Question:


You are given an integer array  `nums`  and an integer  `x`. In one operation, you can either remove the leftmost or the rightmost element from the array  `nums`  and subtract its value from  `x`. Note that this  **modifies**  the array for future operations.

Return  _the  **minimum number**  of operations to reduce_ `x`  _to  **exactly**_  `0`  _if it's possible__, otherwise, return_ `-1`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [1,1,4,2,3], x = 5
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** The optimal solution is to remove the last two elements to reduce x to zero.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [5,6,7,8,9], x = 4
**Output:** -1

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = [3,2,20,1,1,3], x = 10
**Output:** 5
**Explanation:** The optimal solution is to remove the last three elements and the first two elements (5 operations in total) to reduce x to zero.

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`
-   `1 <= nums[i] <= 104`
-   `1 <= x <= 109`
## Solution:
**Approach 1: Cumulative Sums**
We can reformulate this problem: we need to choose several values from the beginning anb several values from end, such that sum of this numbers is equal to  `x`. It is equivalent to finding some contiguous subarray, such that it has sum of elements equal to  `sum(nums) - x`, which has the biggest length. In this way problem becomes quite classical and I prefer to solve it using cumulative sums.

Imagine, that we have  `nums = [1,1,4,2,3], x = 5`. Then we need to find contiguous subarray, such that its sum is equal to  `sum(nums) - x = 6`. It means, that we need to find two cumulative sums, one of them equal to  `goal`  plus another one. Note also, that all  `nums`  are  **positive**, so all cumulative sums will be different.

We keep in  `dic`  indexes for each cumulative sum, so, when we iterate  `num in dic`  and check if  `num + goal in dic`, then we can get length of window:  `dic[num + goal] - dic[num]`  and update  `ans`.

**Remark**: this idea will work also if we can have  **negative**  numbers in our  `nums`. We need to keep in  `dic`  smallest and biggest indexes for each value of cumulative sum and then find maximum between ends of two segments. If we asked to find window of minimum length, and we have negative numbers, it is also possible, but we need to keep defaultdict of all indexes and then use idea of merge sort to find closest pair. Complexities will be also  `O(n)`. I think I saw these problems on leetcode, but I do not remember they numbers, if you recognize them, please let me know!
```python
class Solution:
    def minOperations(self, nums: List[int], x: int) -> int:
        cumsum = [0] + list(accumulate(nums))
        dic = {c:i for i,c in enumerate(cumsum)}
        goal = cumsum[-1] - x
        ans = -float("inf")

        if goal < 0: return -1

        for num in dic:
            if num + goal in dic:
                ans = max(ans, dic[num + goal] - dic[num])

        return len(nums) - ans if ans != -float("inf") else -1
```

**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(n) All suitable nodes are visited


**SC** 
O(n) Constant extra space

---

**Approach 2: Sliding Window**
Similar approach to first one. We use a sliding window approach to find all possible window sizes (Since that's we are asked for) that solves the problem. And according to the question, we keep track of the max size as our answer.

To maintain sliding window, for every start (lo in this case). We go as far as we can for the end (hi in this case). And we move our start only if we reach last num or our sum reachs target.
```python
class Solution:
    def minOperations(self, nums: List[int], x: int) -> int:
        target, size, win_sum, lo, n = sum(nums) - x, -1, 0, -1, len(nums)
        for hi, num in enumerate(nums):
            win_sum += num
            while lo + 1< n and win_sum > target:
                lo += 1
                win_sum -= nums[lo]
            if win_sum == target:
                size = max(size, hi - lo)
        return -1 if size < 0 else n - size    
```

**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(n) Sliding window

**SC** 
O(1) No extra space
