
# 1689. Partitioning Into Minimum Number Of Deci-Binary Numbers

  

## Question

A decimal number is called  **deci-binary**  if each of its digits is either  `0`  or  `1`  without any leading zeros. For example,  `101`  and  `1100`  are  **deci-binary**, while  `112`  and  `3001`  are not.

Given a string  `n`  that represents a positive decimal integer, return  _the  **minimum**  number of positive  **deci-binary**  numbers needed so that they sum up to_ `n`_._

**Example 1:**

**Input:** n = "32"
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** 10 + 11 + 11 = 32

**Example 2:**

**Input:** n = "82734"
**Output:** 8

**Example 3:**

**Input:** n = "27346209830709182346"
**Output:** 9

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= n.length <= 105`
-   `n`  consists of only digits.
-   `n`  does not contain any leading zeros and represents a positive integer.

## Solution

  

### Approach 1: Math

#### Intuition
To get the number `m` at one single digit of `n`, the minimum numbers required will be `m`. Since the digit in those numbers can be either `0` or `1`, and we should all pick `1`s so that we have minimum numbers.

Now we put all digits together into numbers. Obviously, we need `max(n)` numbers to cover the numbers required for that maximum digit. Question is do we need more for other digits?

Probably not. Here are the analyses:

 1. For digits on the right, they can all be covers in those numbers
 2. For digits on the left, we can extend to the left when we need to. And they require numbers <= `max(n)`

#### Algorithm
The maximum digit is the answer

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def minPartitions(self, n: str) -> int:
        return max(n)
```

#### Complexity Analysis

  

-  **Time Complexity:** O(n), one pass all digits
  

-  **Space Complexity:** O(1), Constant extra space