
# 1695. Maximum Erasure Value

  

## Question

You are given an array of positive integers  `nums`  and want to erase a subarray containing **unique elements**. The  **score**  you get by erasing the subarray is equal to the  **sum**  of its elements.

Return  _the  **maximum score**  you can get by erasing  **exactly one**  subarray._

An array  `b`  is called to be a  subarray  of  `a`  if it forms a contiguous subsequence of  `a`, that is, if it is equal to  `a[l],a[l+1],...,a[r]`  for some  `(l,r)`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [4,2,4,5,6]
**Output:** 17
**Explanation:** The optimal subarray here is [2,4,5,6].

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [5,2,1,2,5,2,1,2,5]
**Output:** 8
**Explanation:** The optimal subarray here is [5,2,1] or [1,2,5].

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`
-   `1 <= nums[i] <= 104`

## Solution

  

### Approach 1: Sliding window

#### Intuition
We always have one max-length unique string starting from one number. And there will be a lot of overlaps between unique string starting from different positions.
Thus, we can take a sliding window approach, which only moves start, end if we need to while maintaining a windowing. We should also adopt set to reduce lookup time when new element is introduced.

#### Algorithm
1.  `S`  is set of symbols in our window, we use set to check in  `O(1)`  if new symbol inside it or not.
2.  `beg = end = 0`  in the beginning, so we start with empty window, also  `ans = 0`  and  `n = len(nums)`  and  `sm = 0`: sum of elements in window.
3.  Now, we continue, until one of two of our pointers reaches the end. First, we try to extend our window to the right: check  `s[end]`  in window and if we can, add it to set, move end pointer to the right and update  `sm`  and  `ans`. If we can not add new symbol to set, it means it is already in window set, and we need to move  `beg`  pointer to the right, update  `sm`  and remove elements from  `S`.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def maximumUniqueSubarray(self, nums):
        beg, end, S, n, sm = 0, 0, set(), len(nums), 0
        ans = 0
        while end < n:
            if nums[end] not in S:
                sm += nums[end]
                S.add(nums[end])
                end += 1
                ans = max(ans, sm)
            else:
                sm -= nums[beg]
                S.remove(nums[beg])
                beg += 1
        
        return ans 
```

#### Complexity Analysis

  

-  **Time Complexity:** O(n), one pass that array
  

-  **Space Complexity:** O(n), our set