
# 380. Insert Delete GetRandom O(1)

## Question

Implement the  `RandomizedSet`  class:

- `RandomizedSet()`  Initializes the  `RandomizedSet`  object.
- `bool insert(int val)`  Inserts an item  `val`  into the set if not present. Returns  `true`  if the item was not present,  `false`  otherwise.
- `bool remove(int val)`  Removes an item  `val`  from the set if present. Returns  `true`  if the item was present,  `false`  otherwise.
- `int getRandom()`  Returns a random element from the current set of elements (it's guaranteed that at least one element exists when this method is called). Each element must have the  **same probability**  of being returned.

You must implement the functions of the class such that each function works in **average** `O(1)` time complexity.

**Example 1:**

**Input**
["RandomizedSet", "insert", "remove", "insert", "getRandom", "remove", "insert", "getRandom"]
[[], [1], [2], [2], [], [1], [2], []]
**Output**
[null, true, false, true, 2, true, false, 2]

**Explanation**
RandomizedSet randomizedSet = new RandomizedSet();
randomizedSet.insert(1); // Inserts 1 to the set. Returns true as 1 was inserted successfully.
randomizedSet.remove(2); // Returns false as 2 does not exist in the set.
randomizedSet.insert(2); // Inserts 2 to the set, returns true. Set now contains [1,2].
randomizedSet.getRandom(); // getRandom() should return either 1 or 2 randomly.
randomizedSet.remove(1); // Removes 1 from the set, returns true. Set now contains [2].
randomizedSet.insert(2); // 2 was already in the set, so return false.
randomizedSet.getRandom(); // Since 2 is the only number in the set, getRandom() will always return 2.

**Constraints:**

- `-231  <= val <= 231  - 1`
- At most  `2 *` `105`  calls will be made to  `insert`,  `remove`, and  `getRandom`.
- There will be  **at least one**  element in the data structure when  `getRandom`  is called.

## Solution

### Approach 1: 2 Hashmap

#### Intuition

Insert and remove can be easily achieved by using a set for values. However, to achieve the getRandom function in O(1), we need some more data structure.

We can generate a random number easily. But to map it to a stored value, we need to use a hash map that translates index to value in storage. Since we also want to remove item in O(1), we also need a value to index map (to find the index for removing)

Beside that, we also need to remove gaps after each removal. We can achieve that by fill the gap with last item (largest index)

#### Algorithm

1. In direct dictionary we keep indexes and corresponding values: for example:  `0:3`,  `1:4`,  `2:1`  means, that we have  `3`  values in our dictionary:  `[3,4,1]`.
2. In invert dictionary we keep the opposite correspondences:  `3:0`,  `4:1`,  `1:2`. Why we need to keep two dictionaries? Because we want to search quickly both by keys and by values.
3. `num_elem`  is to count number of elements in our set (you can avoid it, but code becomes a bit more readable).

#### Code

```python
class RandomizedSet:
    def __init__(self):
        # value to index
        self.dic_direct = {}
        # index to value
        self.dic_invert = {}
        # keep track of size
        self.num_elem = 0
        
    def insert(self, val: int) -> bool:
        if val in self.dic_invert:
            return False
        else:
            self.dic_invert[val] = self.num_elem
            self.dic_direct[self.num_elem] = val
            self.num_elem += 1
            return True
        
    def remove(self, val):
        if val not in self.dic_invert:
            return False
        else:
            ind = self.dic_invert.pop(val)
            self.dic_direct.pop(ind)
            # fill the gap if needed
            if ind != self.num_elem - 1:
                self.dic_direct[ind] = self.dic_direct[self.num_elem - 1]
                self.dic_invert[self.dic_direct[self.num_elem - 1]] = ind
                self.dic_direct.pop(self.num_elem - 1)
            self.num_elem -= 1
            return True
        
    def getRandom(self):
        index = floor(random.random()*self.num_elem)
        return self.dic_direct[index]
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(1)`,  All operations are O(1)

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)`, to store both maps
