
  

# 216. Combination Sum III

## Question:


Find all possible combinations of  _**k**_  numbers that add up to a number  _**n**_, given that only numbers from 1 to 9 can be used and each combination should be a unique set of numbers.

**Note:**

-   All numbers will be positive integers.
-   The solution set must not contain duplicate combinations.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** _**k**_ = 3, _**n**_ = 7
**Output:** [[1,2,4]]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** _**k**_ = 3, _**n**_ = 9
**Output:** [[1,2,6], [1,3,5], [2,3,4]]
## Solution:


**Approach 1: Backtrack**
Use backtrack, we can improve from brute force. Since once we finished all possible solution for one situation we will stop and backtrack one. 
Here we also handle numbers in ascending order to avoid duplicated results.
```python
class Solution:
    def combinationSum3(self, k: int, n: int) -> List[List[int]]:
        results = []
        def backtrack(remain, comb, next_start):
            if remain == 0 and len(comb) == k:
                # make a copy of current combination
                results.append(list(comb))
                return
            elif remain < 0 or len(comb) == k:
                # exceed the scope, no need to explore further.
                return

            # Iterate through the reduced list of candidates.
            for i in range(next_start, 10):
                comb.append(i)
                backtrack(remain-i, comb, i+1)
                # backtrack the current choice
                comb.pop()

        backtrack(n, [], 1)

        return results
```


**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(9!⋅K/(9−K)!​)
-   In a worst scenario, we have to explore all potential combinations to the very end,  _i.e._  the sum  n  is a large number (n > 9 * 9). At the first step, we have  9  choices, while at the second step, we have  8  choices, so on and so forth.
    
-   The number of exploration we need to make in the worst case would be  P(9,K) = 9!/(9−K)!​, assuming that  K <= 9. By the way,  K  cannot be greater than 9, otherwise we cannot have a combination whose digits are all unique.
    
-   Each exploration takes a constant time to process, except the last step where it takes  O(K)  time to make a copy of combination.
    
-   To sum up, the overall time complexity of the algorithm would be  9!/(9−K)!​ ⋅ O(K) = O(9!⋅K​ / (9−K)!).

**SC** 
O(K)
-   During the backtracking, we used a list to keep the current combination, which holds up to  KK  elements,  _i.e._  O(K).
    
-   Since we employed recursion in the backtracking, we would need some additional space for the function call stack, which could pile up to  KK  consecutive invocations,  _i.e._  O(K).
    
-   Hence, to sum up, the overall space complexity would be  O(K).
    
-   **Note that**, we did not take into account the space for the final results in the space complexity.
