
  

# 229. Majority Element II

## Question:
Given an integer array of size  _n_, find all elements that appear more than  `⌊ n/3 ⌋`  times.

**Note:** The algorithm should run in linear time and in O(1) space.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** [3,2,3]
**Output:** [3]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** [1,1,1,3,3,2,2,2]
**Output:** [1,2]
## Solution:
**Approach 1: Boyer-Moore Voting Algorithm**
To figure out a  O(1)O(1)  space requirement, we would need to get this simple intuition first. For an array of length  `n`:

-   There can be at most  **one**  majority element which is  **more than**  `⌊n/2⌋`  times.
-   There can be at most  **two**  majority elements which are  **more than**  `⌊n/3⌋`  times.
-   There can be at most  **three**  majority elements which are  **more than**  `⌊n/4⌋`  times.

and so on.

Using the intuition presented in the beginning, we only need four variables: two for holding two potential candidates and two for holding two corresponding counters. Similar to the above case, both candidates are initialized as  `None`  in the beginning with their corresponding counters being 0. While going through the array:

-   If the current element is equal to one of the potential candidate, the count for that candidate is increased while leaving the count of the other candidate as it is.
-   If the counter reaches zero, the candidate associated with that counter will be replaced with the next element  **if**  the next element is not equal to the other candidate as well.
-   Both counters are decremented  **only when**  the current element is different from both candidates.

```python
class Solution:

    def majorityElement(self, nums):
        if not nums:
            return []
        
        # 1st pass to get 2 majar elements
        count1, count2, candidate1, candidate2 = 0, 0, None, None
        for n in nums:
            if candidate1 == n:
                count1 += 1
            elif candidate2 == n:
                count2 += 1
            elif count1 == 0:
                candidate1 = n
                count1 += 1
            elif count2 == 0:
                candidate2 = n
                count2 += 1
            else:
                count1 -= 1
                count2 -= 1
        
        # 2nd pass to check if they meets the requirement
        result = []
        for c in [candidate1, candidate2]:
            if nums.count(c) > len(nums)//3:
                result.append(c)

        return result
```

**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(n). One pass the whole array

**SC** 
O(1) We only have 4 elements
