
  

# 274. H-Index

  

  

## Question:


Given an array of citations (each citation is a non-negative integer) of a researcher, write a function to compute the researcher's h-index.

According to the  [definition of h-index on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H-index): "A scientist has index  _h_  if  _h_  of his/her  _N_  papers have  **at least**  _h_  citations each, and the other  _N − h_  papers have  **no more than**  _h_  citations each."

**Example:**

**Input:** `citations = [3,0,6,1,5]`
**Output:** 3 
**Explanation:** `[3,0,6,1,5]` means the researcher has `5` papers in total and each of them had 
             received `3, 0, 6, 1, 5` citations respectively. 
             Since the researcher has `3` papers with **at least** `3` citations each and the remaining 
             two with **no more than** `3` citations each, her h-index is `3`.

**Note:** If there are several possible values for  _h_, the maximum one is taken as the h-index.
## Solution:
**Approach 1: One Pass with Sort**
Sort the array first, so we can work from high to low.
Since the answer can only be  between 1 and the length of the array. We can use `i+1` as the value to check for ith element.
If the current count of numbers is **at least** the value at the position. We do two more checks to see if we get an answer:
1.	If we are at the end, we can just count it as an answer. Since there is nothing smaller.
2.	If we have next element, we check if next is **no more than** current value. If so, it matches requirement. Count it in.

```python
class Solution:
    def hIndex(self, citations: List[int]) -> int:
        res = 0
        if not citations:
            return res
        citations.sort(reverse=True)
        for i in range(len(citations)):
            if i + 1 <= citations[i]:
                if i == len(citations)-1:
                    if i+1 > res:
                        res = i+1
                elif citations[i+1]<=i+1:
                    if i+1 > res:
                        res = i+1
        return res
```

**Complexity Analysis**

**TC**

O(nlogn) Used sort

**SC**

O(1) Constant space

---

**Approach 2: One Pass with Count array**
Use a count array to hold number of counts for value 0 to n (all numbers no smaller than n are counted as n)
Then, we can go from count n to 0 while accumulating counts to previous one. So we have **at least** counts at each value.
Return as soon as we find a match since we are going downwards.


```python
class Solution:
    def hIndex(self, citations: List[int]) -> int:
	    n = len(citations)
	    citeCount = [0] * (n+1)
	    for c in citations:
	        if c >= n:
	            citeCount[n] += 1
	        else:
	            citeCount[c] += 1
	    
	    i = n-1
	    while i >= 0:
	        citeCount[i] += citeCount[i+1]
	        if citeCount[i+1] >= i+1:
	            return i+1
	        i -= 1
	    return 0
```
  

**Complexity Analysis**

TC:O(n) One pass original array and count array
  

SC:O(n) Count array
