
# 279. Perfect Squares

## Question

Given an integer  `n`, return  _the least number of perfect square numbers that sum to_  `n`.

A  **perfect square**  is an integer that is the square of an integer; in other words, it is the product of some integer with itself. For example,  `1`,  `4`,  `9`, and  `16`  are perfect squares while  `3`  and  `11`  are not.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** n = 12
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** 12 = 4 + 4 + 4.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** n = 13
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** 13 = 4 + 9.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= n <= 104`

## Solution

### Approach 1: BFS

#### Intuition

Use bfs to find the shortest path

#### Algorithm

1. Build all candidates
2. Use BFS to find the shortest path to n
3. Return length of the shortest path

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def numSquares(self, n):
        if n < 2:
            return n
        lst = []
        i = 1
        while i * i <= n:
            lst.append( i * i )
            i += 1
        cnt = 0
        toCheck = {n}
        while toCheck:
            cnt += 1
            temp = set()
            for x in toCheck:
                for y in lst:
                    if x == y:
                        return cnt
                    if x < y:
                        break
                    temp.add(x-y)
            toCheck = temp

        return cnt
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(n^2)`,  (sqrt(n))^4 = n²
  - The depth of the BFS is at most 4 by the four-square theorem (every natural number can be represented as the sum of four integer squares)
  - At every dept there will be at most sqrt(n) children, because there's at most sqrt(n) perfect squares that are smaller than n

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n^2)`, BFS has the same space and time complexity upper bound

### Approach 2: DP

#### Intuition

We can store the minimum number of squares for each n in dp. And if we think about it, the dp relation here is that `dp[i] = min(dp[i-j*j] + 1)` for each possible j

#### Algorithm

1. Filling our dp array up to n
2. For each i, loop through all possible ways and store the minimum
3. Return dp[-1]

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    _dp = [0]
    def numSquares(self, n):
        dp = self._dp
        while len(dp) <= n:
            dp += min(dp[-i*i] for i in range(1, int(len(dp)**0.5+1))) + 1,
        return dp[n]
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(nsqrt(n))`, `n` iterations, and in each of the iteration `j` can go up to sqrt(n)

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)`, dp array size

### Approach 3: Math

#### Intuition

First of all, there is a statement that any number can be represented as sum of 4 squares:  
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lagrange's_four-square_theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lagrange%27s_four-square_theorem). So, answer always will be 4? No, when we talk about `4` squares, it means that some of them can be equal to zero. So, we have `4` options: either `1`, `2`, `3` or `4` squares and we need to choose one of these numbers.

#### Algorithm

1. How to check if number is full square? Just compare square of integer part of root and this number. Complexity of this part is  `O(1)`.
2. How to check if number is sum of  `2`  squares:  `n = i*i + j*j`? iterate over all  `i < sqrt(n)`  and check that  `n - i*i`  is full square. Complexity of this part is  `O(sqrt(n))`.
3. How to check that number is sum of  `4`  squares? In the same link for wikipedia:  
    `by proving that a positive integer can be expressed as the sum of three squares if and only if it is not of the form 4^k(8m+7) for integers k and m`. So, what we need to do is to check this condition and return true if it fulfilled. Complexity is  `O(log n)`
4. Do we need to check anything else? No, because we have only one options left:  `3`  squares.

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def numSquares(self, n):
        if int(sqrt(n))**2 == n: return 1
        for j in range(int(sqrt(n)) + 1):
            if int(sqrt(n - j*j))**2 == n - j*j: return 2
            
        while n % 4 == 0: 
            n >>= 2
        if n % 8 == 7: return 4
        return 3
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(sqrt(n))`, One pass

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(1)`, Constant extra space
