
# 309. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock with Cooldown

## Question

You are given an array  `prices`  where  `prices[i]`  is the price of a given stock on the  `ith`  day.

Find the maximum profit you can achieve. You may complete as many transactions as you like (i.e., buy one and sell one share of the stock multiple times) with the following restrictions:

- After you sell your stock, you cannot buy stock on the next day (i.e., cooldown one day).

**Note:**  You may not engage in multiple transactions simultaneously (i.e., you must sell the stock before you buy again).

**Example 1:**

**Input:** prices = [1,2,3,0,2]
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** transactions = [buy, sell, cooldown, buy, sell]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** prices = [1]
**Output:** 0

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= prices.length <= 5000`
- `0 <= prices[i] <= 1000`

## Solution

### Approach 1: DP

#### Intuition

For all this buy and sell stocks problems I prefer to use **differences** array. For example, if you have `[1,2,3,1,4]`, then we have `[1, 1, -2, 3]` differences. Then the goal is to take as many of subarrays (with adjacent elements) with biggest sum, such that there is not gap with size `1`. For example, for given differences, we **can not** take `[1,1]` and `[3]`, but we can take `[1]` and `[3]`, so the answer will be `4`.

Let  `n`  be number of elements in  `prices`, than there will be  `n-1`  elements in  `diff`  array. Let us create  `dp`  and  `dp_max`  arrays with  `n+1`  elements, that is two extra elements, such that

1. `dp[i]`  is maximum gain for first  `i`  elements of  `diff`, where we use  `i`-th element
2. `dp_max[i]`  is maximum gain for first  `i`  elements of  `diff`  (we can use  `i`  and we can not use it).

#### Algorithm

Now, we can do the following steps:

1. `dp[i] = diff[i] + max(dp_max[i-3], dp[i-1])`, because, first of all we need to use  `i`, so we take  `diff[i]`. Now we have two options: skip  `2`  elements and take  `dp_max[i-3]`, or do not skip anything and take  `dp[i-1]`.
2. Update  `dp_max[i] = max(dp_max[i-1], dp[i])`, standard way to update maximum.
3. Finally, we added  `2`  extra elements to  `dp`  and  `dp_max`, so instead of  `dp_max[-1]`  we need to return  `dp_max[-3]`.

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def maxProfit(self, prices):
        n = len(prices)
        if n <= 1: return 0
        
        diff = [prices[i+1] - prices[i] for i in range(n-1)]
        dp, dp_max = [0]*(n + 1), [0]*(n + 1)
        for i in range(n-1):
            dp[i] = diff[i] + max(dp_max[i-3], dp[i-1])
            dp_max[i] = max(dp_max[i-1], dp[i])
            
        return dp_max[-3]
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(n)`,  One pass the diff array

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)`, our dp array. But we can improve to `O(1)` since we are always using last 3
