
# 377. Combination Sum IV

## Question:



Given an array of  **distinct**  integers  `nums`  and a target integer  `target`, return  _the number of possible combinations that add up to_ `target`.

The answer is  **guaranteed**  to fit in a  **32-bit**  integer.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [1,2,3], target = 4
**Output:** 7
**Explanation:**
The possible combination ways are:
(1, 1, 1, 1)
(1, 1, 2)
(1, 2, 1)
(1, 3)
(2, 1, 1)
(2, 2)
(3, 1)
Note that different sequences are counted as different combinations.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [9], target = 3
**Output:** 0

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= nums.length <= 200`
-   `1 <= nums[i] <= 1000`
-   All the elements of  `nums`  are  **unique**.
-   `1 <= target <= 1000`

**Follow up:**  What if negative numbers are allowed in the given array? How does it change the problem? What limitation we need to add to the question to allow negative numbers?
## Solution:

**Approach 1: DP**
We can solve it with a dp approach. In the dp array we hold number of combinations to get certain number. so basically, we need to fill dp array from 0 to target. For each of the iterations, we only need to process num up to current `i`.
```python
class Solution:
    def combinationSum4(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> int:
        nums, combs = sorted(nums), [1] + [0] * (target)
        # calculate our dp array from 0 - target
        for i in range(target + 1):
	        # fill it with all nums (sorted small to large)
            for num in nums:
	            # stop if we reach num that are over current target (i)
                if num  > i: break
                # this num can be 1 solution
                if num == i: combs[i] += 1
                # use 2 sum approach to get results
                # since num > 0, which means i > i-num
                # thus we will always have counts for i - num (processed in previous loops)
                if num  < i: combs[i] += combs[i - num]
        return combs[target]
```
We can also do top-down to recursively get value from `dp[target]` down to `dp[0]`  which returns 1
  

**Complexity Analysis**

  

TC:O(n^2) sort takes O(nlogn), 2 nested loops take O(n^2)

SC:O(n) dp array with size up to n

----------

**Approach 2: Generating Function**
You probably saw a lot of different solutions for this problem, but I can guess, that you did not saw this one. The idea is here is to use generating functions. Imagine, that we have coins  `1, 2, 5`. Let us create polynomial  `(x^1 + x^2 + x^5)`. Now, let us consider powers of this polynomial. For example:

1.  `(x^1 + x^2 + x^5)^ 1 = (x^1 + x^2 + x^5)`, nothing very interesting here.
2.  `(x^1 + x^2 + x^5)^2 = x^2 + x^3 + x^6 + x^3 + x^4 + x^8 + x^6 + x^7 + x^10`. What we have here. For example we can see that there is only one way to get target  `2`, because coefficient will be equal to  `1`  before  `x^2`, there is  `2`  ways to get  `6`  and so on.
3.  In general if we have  `(x^1 + x^2 + x^5)^k`, then coefficients will show us how many ways we can get one or another target, using exactly  **k**  coins.

Now, we can use problem restrictions: that is that answer will always be less than  `2^32`, so if we use  `x = 2^32`  and will work with operations in  `2^32`  base system, everything will be fine. Also we use python long numbers, which is very helpful here.

1.  Create  `T`  is our polynomial with  `x = 2^32`.
2.  Define  `S = 1`  and  `ans = 0`.
3.  Iterate over powers of  `T`. Each time we multiply  `S`  by  `T`. However we do not want to have too big numbers, so we use  `& (1<<(32*t+32)) - 1`, trick, which will give us last  `t + 1`  digits in  `2^32`  base system.
4.  Update our answer: this is value  `S >> (32*t)`, that is value of  `t`-th digit in our  `2^32`  base system.

#### Drawback

Even if we know the answer will always be less than 2^32, there is no guarantee that the coefficients of all smaller terms do not go beyond 2^32.

Say, the numbers are [99, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10] and the target is 101. Then we only have two ways to get 101, but a whole lot more ways to get 100.
  
```python
class Solution:
    def combinationSum4(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> int:
        T = sum([1<<(32*n) for n in nums])
        S, ans = 1, 0
        for i in range(target):
            S = (S*T) & (1<<(32*target+32)) - 1
            ans += S >> (32*target)
        return ans

```
**Complexity Analysis**

  

TC:O(n), It is a bit difficult to estimate it like this, but on each operation and we have  `t`  of them we will work with number which have no more than  `O(32m)`  bits, where  `m`  is the biggest number among  `nums.`  So, total time complexity will be  `O(32*m*t)`. However in practice it works quite fast.

SC:O(32*m), space complexity is  `O(32*m)`
