
  

# 435. Non-overlapping Intervals

  

  

## Question:
Given a collection of intervals, find the minimum number of intervals you need to remove to make the rest of the intervals non-overlapping.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** [[1,2],[2,3],[3,4],[1,3]]
**Output:** 1
**Explanation:** [1,3] can be removed and the rest of intervals are non-overlapping.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** [[1,2],[1,2],[1,2]]
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** You need to remove two [1,2] to make the rest of intervals non-overlapping.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** [[1,2],[2,3]]
**Output:** 0
**Explanation:** You don't need to remove any of the intervals since they're already non-overlapping.

**Note:**

1.  You may assume the interval's end point is always bigger than its start point.
2.  Intervals like [1,2] and [2,3] have borders "touching" but they don't overlap each other.
## Solution:
**Approach 1: Greedy**
Typical greedy question: when encounter overlap, we always pick the interval with the earliest end time. Then you can get the maximal number of non-overlapping intervals. (or minimal number to remove).
This is because, the interval with the earliest end time produces the maximal capacity to hold rest intervals.
We can sort the intervals List based on start time of each interval first. Then we go over all intervals, if we find an overlap (start is smaller than the currEnd), we remove the one with larger end time.
```python
class Solution:
    def eraseOverlapIntervals(self, intervals: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        if not intervals: return 0
        intervals.sort(key=lambda x: x[0])  # sort on start time
        currEnd, cnt = intervals[0][1], 0
        for x in intervals[1:]:
            if x[0] < currEnd:  # find overlapping interval
                cnt += 1
                currEnd = min(currEnd, x[1])  # erase the one with larger end time
            else:
                currEnd = x[1]  # update end time
        return cnt
```
Further simplify the code, we can sort interval by ending time and keep track of current earliest end time. Once next interval's start time is earlier than current end time, then we have to remove one interval. Otherwise, we update earliest end time.
```python
class Solution:
    def eraseOverlapIntervals(self, intervals: List[List[int]]) -> int:
		end, cnt = float('-inf'), 0
			for i in sorted(intervals, key=lambda x: x[1]):
				if i[0] >= end: # No overlap
					end = i[1] # Start time is greater than current End, have to update current end
				else:  # We have overlap
					cnt += 1 # Remove the one with higher capacity(We just need count in this case)
			return cnt
```

**Complexity Analysis**

**TC**

O(nlogn) Sort takes longer

**SC**

O(1) Constant space used
