
  

# 436. Find Right Interval

  

  

## Question:


Given a set of intervals, for each of the interval i, check if there exists an interval j whose start point is bigger than or equal to the end point of the interval i, which can be called that j is on the "right" of i.

For any interval i, you need to store the minimum interval j's index, which means that the interval j has the minimum start point to build the "right" relationship for interval i. If the interval j doesn't exist, store -1 for the interval i. Finally, you need output the stored value of each interval as an array.

**Note:**

1.  You may assume the interval's end point is always bigger than its start point.
2.  You may assume none of these intervals have the same start point.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** [ [1,2] ]

**Output:** [-1]

**Explanation:** There is only one interval in the collection, so it outputs -1.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** [ [3,4], [2,3], [1,2] ]

**Output:** [-1, 0, 1]

**Explanation:** There is no satisfied "right" interval for [3,4].
For [2,3], the interval [3,4] has minimum-"right" start point;
For [1,2], the interval [2,3] has minimum-"right" start point.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** [ [1,4], [2,3], [3,4] ]

**Output:** [-1, 2, -1]

**Explanation:** There is no satisfied "right" interval for [1,4] and [3,4].
For [2,3], the interval [3,4] has minimum-"right" start point.

**NOTE:** input types have been changed on April 15, 2019. Please reset to default code definition to get new method signature.
## Solution:


**Approach 1: Using Python `dict`**
By adding all start time and its index to a `dict`, we can achieve O(1) time to find index for specific start time. Then we loop through the list again, check whether we have right interval by comparing end time to our start time `dict`
Basically a BF solution. **linear search is used while having a sorted list**
```python
class Solution:
    def findRightInterval(self, intervals: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
        startPointDict, maxStartPoint, minStartPoint, res = {}, float('-inf'), float('inf'), []
        for i in range(len(intervals)):
            startPointDict[intervals[i][0]] = i
            maxStartPoint = max(intervals[i][0], maxStartPoint)
            minStartPoint = min(intervals[i][0], minStartPoint)
        for interval in intervals:
            curr, rightInterval = interval[1], -1
            while curr <= maxStartPoint and curr >= minStartPoint:
                if curr in startPointDict:
                    rightInterval = startPointDict[curr]
                    break
                curr+=1
            res.append(rightInterval)
        return res
```


**Complexity Analysis**

**TC** 
O(n^2^) the second loop has while loop which can go up to n in theory. But in reality, we stop once we found a higher number that exists in dict.

**SC** 
O(n) start time dict

---

**Approach 2: Python `bisect`**
There is a interesting module [bisect](https://docs.python.org/3/library/bisect.html) in Python

> `bisect.bisect_left`(_a_,  _x_,  _lo=0_,  _hi=len(a)_)
> 
> Locate the insertion point for  _x_  in  _a_  to maintain sorted
> order. The parameters  _lo_  and  _hi_  may be used to specify a
> subset of the list which should be considered; by default the entire
> list is used. If  _x_  is already present in  _a_, the insertion point
> will be before (to the left of) any existing entries. The return value
> is suitable for use as the first parameter to  `list.insert()` 
> assuming that  _a_  is already sorted.
> 
> The returned insertion point  _i_  partitions the array  _a_  into two
> halves so that  `all(val  <  x  for  val  in  a[lo:i])`  for the left
> side and  `all(val  >=  x  for  val  in  a[i:hi])`  for the right
> side.

Using it makes our code more elegant. But this is basically a binary search


```python
class Solution:
    def findRightInterval(self, intervals: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
		l = sorted((e.start, i) for i, e in enumerate(intervals))
	    res = []
	    for e in intervals:
	        r = bisect.bisect_left(l, (e.end,))
	        # if we found, append index
	        # otherwise, append -1
	        res.append(l[r][1] if r < len(l) else -1)
	    return res
```


**Complexity Analysis**

**TC** 
O(nlogn) binary search time is logn

**SC** 
O(n) res array
