
# 451. Sort Characters By Frequency

## Question

Given a string  `s`, sort it in  **decreasing order**  based on the  **frequency**  of the characters. The  **frequency**  of a character is the number of times it appears in the string.

Return  _the sorted string_. If there are multiple answers, return  _any of them_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "tree"
**Output:** "eert"
**Explanation:** 'e' appears twice while 'r' and 't' both appear once.
So 'e' must appear before both 'r' and 't'. Therefore "eetr" is also a valid answer.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "cccaaa"
**Output:** "aaaccc"
**Explanation:** Both 'c' and 'a' appear three times, so both "cccaaa" and "aaaccc" are valid answers.
Note that "cacaca" is incorrect, as the same characters must be together.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** s = "Aabb"
**Output:** "bbAa"
**Explanation:** "bbaA" is also a valid answer, but "Aabb" is incorrect.
Note that 'A' and 'a' are treated as two different characters.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 5 * 105`
- `s`  consists of uppercase and lowercase English letters and digits.

## Solution

### Approach 1: 2 Hashmap

#### Intuition

Since we only have letters and digits in string, we can store the appearance into a hashmap. Then, use another hashmap to store frequency to char. We sort by decreasing frequency and build our res.

#### Algorithm

1. Count all appearance into a hashmap
2. Store appearance to char into another hashmap
3. Sort the appearance and loop to build our res

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def frequencySort(self, s: str) -> str:
        charCounter = Counter(s)
        frequencyDict = {}
        res = ''
        for char in charCounter:
            if charCounter[char] not in frequencyDict:
                frequencyDict[charCounter[char]] = ''
            frequencyDict[charCounter[char]] += char
        for frequency in sorted(frequencyDict.keys(), reverse=True):
            for char in frequencyDict[frequency]:
                res += char*frequency
        return res
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(nlogn)`,  need to sort appearance

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)`, to store res

### Approach 2: Improved 2 hashmap

#### Intuition

Similar idea as previous solution. But since frequency can never go more than `len(s)`. So instead of sorting, we just need to check frequency from `len(s)` to `1`

#### Algorithm

1. Count all appearance into a hashmap
2. Store appearance to char into another hashmap
3. start from frequency `len(s)` and loop down to build our res

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def frequencySort(self, s: str) -> str:
        charCounter = Counter(s)
        frequencyDict = {}
        res = ''
        for char in charCounter:
            if charCounter[char] not in frequencyDict:
                frequencyDict[charCounter[char]] = ''
            frequencyDict[charCounter[char]] += char
        for frequency in range(len(s), -1, -1):
            if frequency in frequencyDict:
                for char in frequencyDict[frequency]:
                    res += char*frequency
        return res
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(n)`,  One pass

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)`, to store res
