
  

# 495. Teemo Attacking

## Question:


In LOL world, there is a hero called Teemo and his attacking can make his enemy Ashe be in poisoned condition. Now, given the Teemo's attacking  **ascending**  time series towards Ashe and the poisoning time duration per Teemo's attacking, you need to output the total time that Ashe is in poisoned condition.

You may assume that Teemo attacks at the very beginning of a specific time point, and makes Ashe be in poisoned condition immediately.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** [1,4], 2
**Output:** 4
**Explanation:** At time point 1, Teemo starts attacking Ashe and makes Ashe be poisoned immediately. 
This poisoned status will last 2 seconds until the end of time point 2. 
And at time point 4, Teemo attacks Ashe again, and causes Ashe to be in poisoned status for another 2 seconds. 
So you finally need to output 4.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** [1,2], 2
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** At time point 1, Teemo starts attacking Ashe and makes Ashe be poisoned. 
This poisoned status will last 2 seconds until the end of time point 2. 
However, at the beginning of time point 2, Teemo attacks Ashe again who is already in poisoned status. 
Since the poisoned status won't add up together, though the second poisoning attack will still work at time point 2, it will stop at the end of time point 3. 
So you finally need to output 3.

**Note:**

1.  You may assume the length of given time series array won't exceed 10000.
2.  You may assume the numbers in the Teemo's attacking time series and his poisoning time duration per attacking are non-negative integers, which won't exceed 10,000,000.
## Solution:
**Approach 1: One Pass**
We just one pass the array of times, and keep calculating our `poisonedTill` which is the time we will be poisoned until. 
1. If our next time is after this `poisonedTill`, which means we are attacked while not poisoned. We add the duration to our res since we are guaranteed to be poisoned for that long.
2. If our next time is before this `poisonedTill`, which means we are attacked while poisoned. We need to add the difference between our previous `poisonedTill` and new `poisonedTill`, Since the poisoned time till previous `poisonedTill` is already counted in our first case.
```python
class Solution:
    def findPoisonedDuration(self, timeSeries: List[int], duration: int) -> int:
        res, poisonedTill = 0, -1
        for time in timeSeries:
            prev, poisonedTill = poisonedTill, time+duration-1
            if time <= prev:
                res += poisonedTill-prev
            else:
                res += duration
        return res
```
```python
class Solution:
    def findPoisonedDuration(self, timeSeries: List[int], duration: int) -> int:
        res, poisonedTill = 0, -1
        for time in timeSeries:
            prev, poisonedTill = poisonedTill, time+duration
            if time < prev:
                res += poisonedTill-prev
            else:
                res += duration
        return res
```

**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(n). One pass

**SC** 
O(1) Constant extra space

---

**Approach 2: Greedy**
For each time attacked, we are guaranteed to be poisoned for `duration` if there is nothing else. But we are considered to be poisoned for shorter time if next attack is received with in `duration`. As the previous poisoned status is refreshed for the new attack. Thus we can add up all poisoned time for all attacks and get our result.
```python
class Solution:
    def findPoisonedDuration(self, timeSeries: List[int], duration: int) -> int:
        if len(timeSeries) == 0: return 0
        totalTime = 0
        for i in range(0, len(timeSeries) - 1):
            totalTime += min(duration, timeSeries[i + 1] - timeSeries[i])
        return totalTime + duration
```



**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(n). One pass

**SC** 
O(1) Constant extra space
