
# 565. Array Nesting

## Question

You are given an integer array  `nums`  of length  `n`  where  `nums`  is a permutation of the numbers in the range  `[0, n - 1]`.

You should build a set  `s[k] = {nums[k], nums[nums[k]], nums[nums[nums[k]]], ... }`  subjected to the following rule:

- The first element in  `s[k]`  starts with the selection of the element  `nums[k]`  of  `index = k`.
- The next element in  `s[k]`  should be  `nums[nums[k]]`, and then  `nums[nums[nums[k]]]`, and so on.
- We stop adding right before a duplicate element occurs in  `s[k]`.

Return  _the longest length of a set_  `s[k]`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [5,4,0,3,1,6,2]
**Output:** 4
**Explanation:**
nums[0] = 5, nums[1] = 4, nums[2] = 0, nums[3] = 3, nums[4] = 1, nums[5] = 6, nums[6] = 2.
One of the longest sets s[k]:
s[0] = {nums[0], nums[5], nums[6], nums[2]} = {5, 6, 2, 0}

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [0,1,2]
**Output:** 1

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 105`
- `0 <= nums[i] < nums.length`
- All the values of  `nums`  are  **unique**.

## Solution

### Approach 1: One pass

#### Intuition

Since we are guaranteed that each index will be connecting to only one other index. If we think of the question as graph. we are looking for the longest loop in the graph.

In other words, we just need to keep traverse and avoid revisit node. In which case, we will have length of the loop at the last unique node.

#### Algorithm

1. One pass all indexes
2. Keep traversing until we reach a visited node while updating the length on the way
3. Once all nodes are processed, the longest value is the length of longest loop.

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def arrayNesting(self, nums):
        n = len(nums)
        visited = [0]*n
        for i in range(n):
            start, depth = i, 1
            while not visited[start]:
             # Simple update the curr depth
             # As we will have the longest
             # at the end of loop
                visited[start] = depth
                start = nums[start]
                depth += 1
                
        return max(visited) 
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(n)`,  One pass all nodes, no revisit

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)`, visited list of length
