
# 609. Find Duplicate File in System

  

## Question

Given a list  `paths`  of directory info, including the directory path, and all the files with contents in this directory, return  _all the duplicate files in the file system in terms of their paths_. You may return the answer in  **any order**.

A group of duplicate files consists of at least two files that have the same content.

A single directory info string in the input list has the following format:

-   `"root/d1/d2/.../dm f1.txt(f1_content) f2.txt(f2_content) ... fn.txt(fn_content)"`

It means there are  `n`  files  `(f1.txt, f2.txt ... fn.txt)`  with content  `(f1_content, f2_content ... fn_content)`  respectively in the directory "`root/d1/d2/.../dm"`. Note that  `n >= 1`  and  `m >= 0`. If  `m = 0`, it means the directory is just the root directory.

The output is a list of groups of duplicate file paths. For each group, it contains all the file paths of the files that have the same content. A file path is a string that has the following format:

-   `"directory_path/file_name.txt"`

**Example 1:**

**Input:** paths = ["root/a 1.txt(abcd) 2.txt(efgh)","root/c 3.txt(abcd)","root/c/d 4.txt(efgh)","root 4.txt(efgh)"]
**Output:** [["root/a/2.txt","root/c/d/4.txt","root/4.txt"],["root/a/1.txt","root/c/3.txt"]]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** paths = ["root/a 1.txt(abcd) 2.txt(efgh)","root/c 3.txt(abcd)","root/c/d 4.txt(efgh)"]
**Output:** [["root/a/2.txt","root/c/d/4.txt"],["root/a/1.txt","root/c/3.txt"]]

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= paths.length <= 2 * 104`
-   `1 <= paths[i].length <= 3000`
-   `1 <= sum(paths[i].length) <= 5 * 105`
-   `paths[i]`  consist of English letters, digits,  `'/'`,  `'.'`,  `'('`,  `')'`, and  `' '`.
-   You may assume no files or directories share the same name in the same directory.
-   You may assume each given directory info represents a unique directory. A single blank space separates the directory path and file info.

**Follow up:**

-   Imagine you are given a real file system, how will you search files? DFS or BFS?
-   If the file content is very large (GB level), how will you modify your solution?
-   If you can only read the file by 1kb each time, how will you modify your solution?
-   What is the time complexity of your modified solution? What is the most time-consuming part and memory-consuming part of it? How to optimize?
-   How to make sure the duplicated files you find are not false positive?

## Solution

  

### Approach 1: Hashmap


#### Intuition
We are grouping all files with same contents together. And we also need to retrieve the path to it. With no data structure, this will be an expansive operation. For this scenario, we should adopt Hashmap.

#### Algorithm
We loop through all paths. For each path, we loop through all file names as well as file contents. In the progress, we store into our Hashmap while file content is the key as that's what we are grouping with.

After we build up the HashMap, we start building result array with it. We only care about duplicated files (more than one file with same content)

```python
class Solution:
    def findDuplicate(self, paths: List[str]) -> List[List[str]]:
        fileDict = {}
        for path in paths:
            tempArray = path.split()
            directory, files = tempArray[0], tempArray[1:]
            for file in files:
                fileName, fileContent, nameEnd = '', '', False
                for char in file:
                    if char == '(':
                        nameEnd = True
                    if not nameEnd:
                        fileName += char
                    else:
                        fileContent += char
                if fileContent not in fileDict:
                    fileDict[fileContent] = []
                fileDict[fileContent].append(directory+'/'+fileName)
        res = []
        for key in fileDict:
            if len(fileDict[key]) > 1:
                res.append(fileDict[key])
        return res
```

**Follow up:**
##### BFS vs DFS
BFS explores neighbors first. This means that files which are located close to each other are also accessed one after another. This is great for space locality and that's why BFS is expected to be faster. Also, BFS is easier to parallelize (more fine-grained locking). DFS will require a lock on the root node.
##### Very large files and false positives

For very large files we should do the following comparisons in this order:

1.  compare  **sizes**, if not equal, then files are different and stop here!
2.  **hash**  them with a fast algorithm e.g. MD5 or use SHA256 (no collisions found yet), if not equal then stop here!
3.  compare  **byte by byte**  to avoid false positives due to collisions.

Have you used an IDE in remote development mode?  
For example, CLion has some options on how to compare the local files with the remote server files and then decides to synchronize or not.
##### Complexity

Runtime - Worst case (which is very unlikely to happen): O(N^2 * L) where L is the size of the maximum bytes that need to be compared  
Space - Worst case: all files are hashed and inserted in the hashmap, so O(H^2*L), H is the hash code size and L is the filename size

#### Complexity Analysis

  

-  **Time Complexity:** O(n), we one pass the paths
  

-  **Space Complexity:** O(n), our dict stores all file paths
---