
# 731. My Calendar II

## Question

You are implementing a program to use as your calendar. We can add a new event if adding the event will not cause a  **triple booking**.

A  **triple booking**  happens when three events have some non-empty intersection (i.e., some moment is common to all the three events.).

The event can be represented as a pair of integers  `start`  and  `end`  that represents a booking on the half-open interval  `[start, end)`, the range of real numbers  `x`  such that  `start <= x < end`.

Implement the  `MyCalendarTwo`  class:

- `MyCalendarTwo()`  Initializes the calendar object.
- `boolean book(int start, int end)`  Returns  `true`  if the event can be added to the calendar successfully without causing a  **triple booking**. Otherwise, return  `false`  and do not add the event to the calendar.

**Example 1:**

**Input**
["MyCalendarTwo", "book", "book", "book", "book", "book", "book"]
[[], [10, 20], [50, 60], [10, 40], [5, 15], [5, 10], [25, 55]]
**Output**
[null, true, true, true, false, true, true]

**Explanation**
MyCalendarTwo myCalendarTwo = new MyCalendarTwo();
myCalendarTwo.book(10, 20); // return True, The event can be booked.
myCalendarTwo.book(50, 60); // return True, The event can be booked.
myCalendarTwo.book(10, 40); // return True, The event can be double booked.
myCalendarTwo.book(5, 15);  // return False, The event ca not be booked, because it would result in a triple booking.
myCalendarTwo.book(5, 10); // return True, The event can be booked, as it does not use time 10 which is already double booked.
myCalendarTwo.book(25, 55); // return True, The event can be booked, as the time in [25, 40) will be double booked with the third event, the time [40, 50) will be single booked, and the time [50, 55) will be double booked with the second event.

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= start < end <= 109`
- At most  `1000`  calls will be made to  `book`.

## Solution

### Approach 1: BF

#### Intuition

Calles to book is limited. We can afford a O(n) solution by checking previous booked events. One thing to mark is that we can check if we have overlap by check if we dont have overlap and ! the answer.
We keep a overlapped list to hold all double booked ranges and a booked list to hold all booked ranges

#### Algorithm

1. Check all overlapped list to see if we can book the new date
2. If we can, go through booked dates and add any overlaps
3. Add booked date to booked list as well

#### Code

```python
class MyCalendarTwo:

    def init(self):
        self.booked = []
        self.overlapped = []

    def book(self, start: int, end: int) -> bool:
        def haveOverlap(s1, e1, s2, e2):
            return not (e1 <= s2 or e2 <= s1)
            # return s1 < e2 and s2 < e1

        for s1, e1 in self.overlapped:
            if haveOverlap(s1, e1, start, end):
                return False
        for s1, e1 in self.booked:
            if haveOverlap(s1, e1, start, end):
                self.overlapped.append((max(s1, start), min(e1, end)))
        self.booked.append((start, end))
        return True

# Your MyCalendarTwo object will be instantiated and called as such:
# obj = MyCalendarTwo()
# param_1 = obj.book(start,end)
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(n)` two one passes

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)` to store events
