
  

# 775. Global and Local Inversions

  

## Question:


We have some permutation  `A`  of  `[0, 1, ..., N - 1]`, where  `N`  is the length of  `A`.

The number of (global) inversions is the number of  `i < j`  with  `0 <= i < j < N`  and  `A[i] > A[j]`.

The number of local inversions is the number of  `i`  with  `0 <= i < N`  and  `A[i] > A[i+1]`.

Return  `true` if and only if the number of global inversions is equal to the number of local inversions.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** A = [1,0,2]
**Output:** true
**Explanation:** There is 1 global inversion, and 1 local inversion.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** A = [1,2,0]
**Output:** false
**Explanation:** There are 2 global inversions, and 1 local inversion.

**Note:**

-   `A`  will be a permutation of  `[0, 1, ..., A.length - 1]`.
-   `A`  will have length in range  `[1, 5000]`.
-   The time limit for this problem has been reduced.
## Solution:

**Approach 1: Math**

At first thought, it seems that we need to calculate both local and global inversions and compare the two numbers. local inversions are easy and can be calculated in O(n). But global inversions involve checking all previous elements which will take O(n^2).
But if we think about it, if number of local inversions == number of global inversions. That means all inversions are local inversions, which by definition, means difference of adjacent elements are <= 1. 
Below are some detail explanations:

> Suppose you have a sorted array [1, 2, 3, 4, 5], and each element
> differ by one. How can you create a new array with same local
> inversion and global inversion by swap elements?
> 
>   
> 
> The answer is simply swap the current element with its neighbor.
> 
>   
> 
> you can switch A[i] with A[i+1], which turns to be [1, 3, 2, 4, 5] if
> i=1
> 
> you can switch A[i] with A[i-1], which turns to be [2, 1, 3, 4, 5] if
> i=1
> 
> Switch to any other position would break the promise. That's quite
> intuitive, because switch i to i+2 would create a non-local global
> inversion.

  

Original explain works quite similar way. If i is not in A[i], A[i+1] and A[i-1], that means there must be a swap between A[i+/-k] swap with A[i] (k>=2), since they are not neighbor at sorted array, you immediately create a non-local global inversion.
Thus, we just need to check whether that is correct.

```python
class Solution:
    def isIdealPermutation(self, A: List[int]) -> bool:
        return all(abs(i - A[i]) <= 1 for i in range(len(A)))
```

**Complexity Analysis**

**TC**

O(n) one pass the array

**SC**

O(1) no extra space
