
# 791. Custom Sort String

## Question

`order`  and  `str`  are strings composed of lowercase letters. In  `order`, no letter occurs more than once.

`order`  was sorted in some custom order previously. We want to permute the characters of  `str`  so that they match the order that  `order`  was sorted. More specifically, if  `x`  occurs before  `y`  in  `order`, then  `x`  should occur before  `y`  in the returned string.

Return any permutation of  `str`  (as a string) that satisfies this property.

**Example:**
**Input:**
order = "cba"
str = "abcd"
**Output:** "cbad"
**Explanation:**
"a", "b", "c" appear in order, so the order of "a", "b", "c" should be "c", "b", and "a".
Since "d" does not appear in order, it can be at any position in the returned string. "dcba", "cdba", "cbda" are also valid outputs.

**Note:**

- `order`  has length at most  `26`, and no character is repeated in  `order`.
- `str`  has length at most  `200`.
- `order`  and  `str`  consist of lowercase letters only.

## Solution

### Approach 1: Custom Sort

#### Intuition

This is a normal sort question except than comparing two element is slightly tricky. We need to compare based on the index of the char in order string (don't care about the char if its not in order string)
For the sort part, we can choose whichever sort algorithm. Here we use TimSort which is the built-in sort of Python.

#### Algorithm

1. Create a dictionary for looking up order for char (default return least priority)
2. Sort the str with look-up dict
3. Return the sorted string

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def customSortString(self, order: str, str: str) -> str:
        # make char not in order have least priority
        orderDict = defaultdict(lambda: len(order))
        # record all char in order with their ranking
        for i, char in enumerate(order):
            orderDict[char] = i
        strList = list(str)
        # use the dict for ordering
        strList.sort(key=lambda char : orderDict[char])
        return ''.join(strList)
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:** `O(nlogn)`, TimSort
  
- **Space Complexity:** `O(n)`, Our lookup dict
