# 841. Keys and Rooms

  

## Question:
There are  `N`  rooms and you start in room  `0`. Each room has a distinct number in  `0, 1, 2, ..., N-1`, and each room may have some keys to access the next room.

Formally, each room  `i` has a list of keys  `rooms[i]`, and each key  `rooms[i][j]`  is an integer in  `[0, 1, ..., N-1]`  where  `N = rooms.length`. A key  `rooms[i][j] = v` opens the room with number  `v`.

Initially, all the rooms start locked (except for room  `0`).

You can walk back and forth between rooms freely.

Return  `true` if and only if you can enter every room.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** [[1],[2],[3],[]]
**Output:** true
**Explanation:** 
We start in room 0, and pick up key 1.
We then go to room 1, and pick up key 2.
We then go to room 2, and pick up key 3.
We then go to room 3.  Since we were able to go to every room, we return true.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** [[1,3],[3,0,1],[2],[0]]
**Output:** false
**Explanation:** We can't enter the room with number 2.

**Note:**

1.  `1 <= rooms.length <= 1000`
2.  `0 <= rooms[i].length <= 1000`
3.  The number of keys in all rooms combined is at most `3000`.
  
  
  

## Solution:

  

**Approach 1: DFS**
When visiting a room for the first time, look at all the keys in that room. For any key that hasn't been used yet, add it to the todo list (`stack`) for it to be used.

  
  

```python
class Solution:
    def canVisitAllRooms(self, rooms: List[List[int]]) -> bool:
        seen = [False] * len(rooms)
        seen[0] = True
        stack = [0]
        #At the beginning, we have a todo list "stack" of keys to use.
        #'seen' represents at some point we have entered this room.
        while stack:  #While we have keys...
            node = stack.pop() # get the next key 'node'
            for nei in rooms[node]: # For every key in room # 'node'...
                if not seen[nei]: # ... that hasn't been used yet
                    seen[nei] = True # mark that we've entered the room
                    stack.append(nei) # add the key to the todo list
        return all(seen) # Return true if we've visited every room
```

**Complexity Analysis**

  

TC:O(N+E), where N is the number of rooms, and E is the total number of keys.

  

SC:O(N) in additional space complexity, to store `stack` and `seen`.