
  

# 869. Reordered Power of 2

## Question:

Starting with a positive integer  `N`, we reorder the digits in any order (including the original order) such that the leading digit is not zero.

Return  `true` if and only if we can do this in a way such that the resulting number is a power of 2.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** 1
**Output:** true

**Example 2:**

**Input:** 10
**Output:** false

**Example 3:**

**Input:** 16
**Output:** true

**Example 4:**

**Input:** 24
**Output:** false

**Example 5:**

**Input:** 46
**Output:** true

**Note:**

1.  `1 <= N <= 10^9`
## Solution:
**Approach 1: Permutations**
This approach has two steps: how will we generate the permutations of the digits, and how will we check that the permutation represents a power of 2?

To generate permutations of the digits, we place any digit into the first position (`start = 0`), then any of the remaining digits into the second position (`start = 1`), and so on. In Python, we can use the builtin function  `itertools.permutations`.

To check whether a permutation represents a power of 2, we check that there is no leading zero, and divide out all factors of 2. If the result is  `1`  (that is, it contained no other factors besides  `2`), then it was a power of 2. In Python, we can use the check  `bin(N).count('1') == 1`.
```python
class Solution:
    def reorderedPowerOf2(self, N: int) -> bool:
        """
        Let's work through an example like N = 128.
        In the last line, 'for cand in itertools.permutations(str(N))' will
        iterate through the six possibilities cand = ('1', '2', '8'),
        cand = ('1', '8', '2'), cand = ('2', '1', '8'), and so on.

        The check cand[0] != '0' is a check that the candidate permutation
        does not have a leading zero.

        The check bin(int("".join(cand))).count('1') == 1 is a check that cand
        represents a power of 2: namely, that the number of ones in its binary
        representation is 1.
        """
        return any(cand[0] != '0' and bin(int("".join(cand))).count('1') == 1
                   for cand in itertools.permutations(str(N)))
```

**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O((logN)!∗logN) Note that logN is the number of digits in the binary representation of N. For each of (logN)! permutations of the digits of N, we need to check that it is a power of 2 in O(logN) time.


**SC** 
O(logN), the space used by `cand`.

---

**Approach 2: Counting**
We can check whether two numbers have the same digits by comparing the  _count_  of their digits. For example, 338 and 833 have the same digits because they both have exactly two 3's and one 8.

Since  N  could only be a power of 2 with 9 digits or less (namely,  2^0, 2^1,***, 2^29), we can just check whether  N  has the same digits as any of these possibilities.
```python
class Solution:
    def reorderedPowerOf2(self, N: int) -> bool:
        count = collections.Counter(str(N))
        return any(count == collections.Counter(str(1 << b))
                   for b in range(31))
```

**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(log2N). There are logN different candidate powers of 2, and each comparison has O(logN) time complexity.

**SC** 
O(logN), 
