
# 877. Stone Game

## Question

Alex and Lee play a game with piles of stones. There are an even number of piles  **arranged in a row**, and each pile has a positive integer number of stones  `piles[i]`.

The objective of the game is to end with the most stones. The total number of stones is odd, so there are no ties.

Alex and Lee take turns, with Alex starting first. Each turn, a player takes the entire pile of stones from either the beginning or the end of the row. This continues until there are no more piles left, at which point the person with the most stones wins.

Assuming Alex and Lee play optimally, return  `True` if and only if Alex wins the game.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** piles = [5,3,4,5]
**Output:** true
**Explanation:**
Alex starts first, and can only take the first 5 or the last 5.
Say he takes the first 5, so that the row becomes [3, 4, 5].
If Lee takes 3, then the board is [4, 5], and Alex takes 5 to win with 10 points.
If Lee takes the last 5, then the board is [3, 4], and Alex takes 4 to win with 9 points.
This demonstrated that taking the first 5 was a winning move for Alex, so we return true.

**Constraints:**

- `2 <= piles.length <= 500`
- `piles.length`  is even.
- `1 <= piles[i] <= 500`
- `sum(piles)`  is odd.

## Solution

### Approach 1: DP

#### Intuition

Making best decision is a good sign indicating DP solution. Since we are making optimal decision, it should be based on previous best solution in a shorter range + picking left or right element from the outer pair.

#### Algorithm

1. We can use recursion with memorization to implement DP
2. Or we can also populate DP table and return DP value for maximum range
3. But the recursion relation is the same: `piles[i] + dp(i+1, j)`, or `piles[j] + dp(i, j-1)` for Alex, `-piles[i] + dp(i+1, j)`, or `-piles[j] + dp(i, j-1)` for Lee (considered minus score for Alex). So as long as final score is positive, he wins.

#### Code

Recursion + Memorization

```python
class Solution:
    def stoneGame(self, piles: List[int]) -> bool:
        @lru_cache(None)
        def dp(i, j): 
            if i == j: return piles[i]
            return max(piles[i] - dp(i+1, j), piles[j] - dp(i, j-1))
        
        return dp(0, len(piles) - 1) > 0
```

DP array

```python
class Solution:
    def stoneGame(self, piles: List[int]) -> bool:
        dp = {}
        for length in range(1, len(piles)+1):
            for start in range(len(piles)-length+1):
                if length == 1:
                    # first turn is Alex's
                    dp[(start, start)] = piles[start]
                else:
                    end = start + length -1
                    # check if is Alex's turn
                    if length%2 == 1:
                        dp[(start, end)] = max(dp[(start+1, end)]+piles[start], dp[(start, end-1)]+piles[end])
                    else:
                        dp[(start, end)] = min(dp[(start+1, end)]-piles[start], dp[(start, end-1)]-piles[end])
        return dp[(0, len(piles)-1)]
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(n^2)`, DP array take 2 loops to fill in

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n^2)`, DP array size

### Approach 2: Math

#### Intuition

Consider our base case, when there are 2 elements. Since Alex pick first and there is not tie, he is garmented to be able to pick the bigger one.

Then we can think about 4 elements:

If Alex takes the first pile initially, she can always take the third pile. If she takes the fourth pile initially, she can always take the second pile. At least one of  `first + third, second + fourth`  is larger, so she can always win.

Thus, we can see that Alex is able to select all odd or even piles. And one of them is guaranteed to be larger. Since he picks first, we can conclude that he will always win

#### Algorithm

1. Math!

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def stoneGame(self, piles: List[int]) -> bool:
  return True
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(1)`, Not doing anything

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(1)`Not using anything
