# 881. Boats to Save People

## Question

You are given an array  `people`  where  `people[i]`  is the weight of the  `ith`  person, and an  **infinite number of boats**  where each boat can carry a maximum weight of  `limit`. Each boat carries at most two people at the same time, provided the sum of the weight of those people is at most  `limit`.

Return  _the minimum number of boats to carry every given person_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** people = [1,2], limit = 3
**Output:** 1
**Explanation:** 1 boat (1, 2)

**Example 2:**

**Input:** people = [3,2,2,1], limit = 3
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** 3 boats (1, 2), (2) and (3)

**Example 3:**

**Input:** people = [3,5,3,4], limit = 5
**Output:** 4
**Explanation:** 4 boats (3), (3), (4), (5)

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= people.length <= 5 * 104`
- `1 <= people[i] <= limit <= 3 * 104`

## Solution

### Approach 1: Greedy

#### Intuition

Since there is a Constraint of maximum 2 person per boat. To minimize number of boats, we need to fill more than one person if we can.
Therefore, we can start by filling in heaviest ones and try to fill in another person(check lowest person that hasn't be into a boat).
Reasoning behind this is that we should pair the heavier ones if we have the chance(if the lightest person can pair with anyone, they might as well pair with the heaviest person). After all we care about the minium number of boats instead of the minium number of boats with the most optimal pairs.

By the way, if we remove the limit on number of people in boat. This problem become extremely tricky: [Bin packing problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bin_packing_problem).

#### Algorithm

1. Create a two pointers to try to pair heaviest with lightest
2. Move pointers accordingly based on the sum of wright and the limit
3. Return total boats used

#### Code

```python
class Solution(object):
    def numRescueBoats(self, people, limit):
        people.sort()
        i, j = 0, len(people) - 1
        ans = 0
        while i <= j:
            ans += 1
            if people[i] + people[j] <= limit:
                i += 1
            j -= 1
        return ans
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(nlogn)` , Bottleneck is the sort. Then we do a one pass.

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(1)` , constant extra space
