
# 91. Decode Ways

## Question

A message containing letters from  `A-Z`  can be  **encoded**  into numbers using the following mapping:

'A' -> "1"
'B' -> "2"
...
'Z' -> "26"

To  **decode**  an encoded message, all the digits must be grouped then mapped back into letters using the reverse of the mapping above (there may be multiple ways). For example,  `"11106"`  can be mapped into:

- `"AAJF"`  with the grouping  `(1 1 10 6)`
- `"KJF"`  with the grouping  `(11 10 6)`

Note that the grouping  `(1 11 06)`  is invalid because  `"06"`  cannot be mapped into  `'F'`  since  `"6"`  is different from  `"06"`.

Given a string  `s`  containing only digits, return  _the  **number**  of ways to  **decode**  it_.

The answer is guaranteed to fit in a  **32-bit**  integer.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "12"
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** "12" could be decoded as "AB" (1 2) or "L" (12).

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "226"
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** "226" could be decoded as "BZ" (2 26), "VF" (22 6), or "BBF" (2 2 6).

**Example 3:**

**Input:** s = "0"
**Output:** 0
**Explanation:** There is no character that is mapped to a number starting with 0.
The only valid mappings with 0 are 'J' -> "10" and 'T' -> "20", neither of which start with 0.
Hence, there are no valid ways to decode this since all digits need to be mapped.

**Example 4:**

**Input:** s = "06"
**Output:** 0
**Explanation:** "06" cannot be mapped to "F" because of the leading zero ("6" is different from "06").

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 100`
- `s`  contains only digits and may contain leading zero(s).

## Solution

### Approach 1: DP

#### Intuition

At each char, we have 2 options:

 1. Count current char in if its not 0 (we can keep number of solutions from last char)
 2. Count previous char + current char in if its between 10 and 26 (we can keep number of solutions from previous char of last char)

If both options are not available, we dont add any count of solutions (we cant continues at this point)

#### Algorithm

1. Fill up dp array while looping through the chars
2. The count in last index is our answer
3. Take care of base cases

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def numDecodings(self, s: str) -> int:
        if len(s) == 0:
            return 0
        if s[0] == '0':
            return 0
        dp = [0 for char in s]
        for i in range(len(s)):
            if int(s[i])>0:
                if i == 0:
                    dp[0] += 1
                else:
                    dp[i] += dp[i-1]
            if i > 0 and 10 <= int(s[i-1:i+1]) <= 26:
                if i == 1:
                    dp[1] += 1
                else:
                    dp[i] += dp[i-2]
        return dp[-1]
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(n)`, One pass

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)`, Our dp array. Can be reduced to `O(1)` Since we only need `-1` and `-2` at each iteration.
