
# 915. Partition Array into Disjoint Intervals

## Question

Given an array  `nums`, partition it into two (contiguous) subarrays `left` and  `right` so that:

- Every element in  `left` is less than or equal to every element in  `right`.
- `left`  and  `right`  are non-empty.
- `left` has the smallest possible size.

Return the  **length**  of  `left`  after such a partitioning. It is guaranteed that such a partitioning exists.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [5,0,3,8,6]
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** left = [5,0,3], right = [8,6]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [1,1,1,0,6,12]
**Output:** 4
**Explanation:** left = [1,1,1,0], right = [6,12]

**Note:**

1. `2 <= nums.length <= 30000`
2. `0 <= nums[i] <= 106`
3. It is guaranteed there is at least one way to partition  `nums`  as described.

## Solution

### Approach 1: Accumulated sum

#### Intuition

The question is actually asking for the partition where max of left part is greater than min of right part. Since accumulate max of all possible left parts and min of all possible right parts can all be done in one pass. We can calculate them, and find the first applicable one starting from left (since we want the left part to be minimized)

#### Algorithm

1. Get accumulate max starting from left and accumulate min starting from right
2. Starting from left and use the two accumulate arrays to find first applicable answer

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def partitionDisjoint(self, A):
        t1 = list(accumulate(A, max)) 
        t2 = list(accumulate(A[::-1], min))[::-1]
        for i in range(1, len(A)):
            if t1[i-1] <= t2[i]: return i
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:** `O(n)`, accumulate takes O(n), the same for one pass to find answer.
  
- **Space Complexity:** `O(n)`, two accumulate arrays
