
# 932. Beautiful Array

## Question

For some fixed  `n`, an array  `nums`  is  _beautiful_  if it is a permutation of the integers  `1, 2, ..., n`, such that:

For every  `i < j`, there is  **no** `k`  with  `i < k < j` such that  `nums[k] * 2 = nums[i] + nums[j]`.

Given  `n`, return  **any**  beautiful array  `nums`. (It is guaranteed that one exists.)

**Example 1:**

**Input:** n = 4
**Output:** [2,1,4,3]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** n = 5
**Output:** [3,1,2,5,4]

**Note:**

- `1 <= n <= 1000`

## Solution

### Approach 1: Math + Divide and conquer

#### Intuition

In order to solve this problem without exploding runtime (BF). We need to simplify this condition:

For every `i < j`, there is **no**  `k` with `i < k < j` such that `nums[k] * 2 = nums[i] + nums[j]`

We can reduce 2 on both side. Then we have: `nums[k] = nums[i]/2 + nums[j]/2`.

Since all numbers are integers, we can see that all `nums[i]` and `nums[j]`needs to be both even (or odd) for the equation to be true. To break the equation, we can make sure left is odd and right is even (or the other way around but we just need to pick one)

Since this is a linear condition, we can know that if the condition is satisfied by variables taking on values `(1, 2, ..., n)`, it is satisfied by those variables taking on values `(a + b, a + 2*b, a + 3*b, ..., a + (n-1)*b)` instead. Which means we can utilize it to generate part of the array based on some lower n results. For example, if we look at odd numbers, imagine `n = 12`, then we have `[1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11]` and if we add `1` to each number and divide each number by `2` then we have `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]`which is actually f(6)

#### Algorithm

1. Recursive build left(odd) and right(even) based on transformation of previous result(n//2 and (n+1)//2)
2. Our base case is when N == 1, return [1]
3. Add memorization to eliminate duplicate calculation

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def beautifulArray(self, N):
        @lru_cache(None)
        def dfs(N):
            if N == 1: return (1,)
            t1 = dfs((N+1)//2)
            t2 = dfs(N//2)
            return [i*2-1 for i in t1] + [i*2 for i in t2]
        
        return dfs(N)
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(n)`, From the first sight, time complexity is `O(n log n)`, because we have recursion `C(n) = C(n//2) + C((n+1)//2)`, which lead to `O(n log n)`. However it can be shown that it is `O(n)`. Imagine case `n = 105`, then we have `105 -> (52, 53) -> (26, 26, 27, 27) -> (13, 13, 13, 13, 14, 14, 14, 14)` and if we use memorization, no need to solve problem each time for `13`, we can do it only once. On each level we will have at most **two** values in our recursion tree.

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(n)`Recursion stack
