# 991. Broken Calculator

## Question

There is a broken calculator that has the integer  `startValue`  on its display initially. In one operation, you can:

- multiply the number on display by  `2`, or
- subtract  `1`  from the number on display.

Given two integers  `startValue`  and  `target`, return  _the minimum number of operations needed to display_ `target` _on the calculator_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** startValue = 2, target = 3
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** Use double operation and then decrement operation {2 -> 4 -> 3}.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** startValue = 5, target = 8
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** Use decrement and then double {5 -> 4 -> 8}.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** startValue = 3, target = 10
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** Use double, decrement and double {3 -> 6 -> 5 -> 10}.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= x, y <= 10^9`

## Solution

### Approach 1: Greedy

#### Intuition

First of all, we are given two and two options to update our start value. And the range for start value and target are within [1, 10^9].
If we take a look at it, one is double which makes the value go up(unless the value is 1). The other is minus 1 which, obviously makes value go down. So if the target is smaller than start value, we can only go down with option 2
Now let's talk about the case that target is larger than start value. Let's compare the two options we have if we need to do both steps for multiple times to get to target:

1. If we do a minus 1 before double. Its essentially the same as do double than minus 1 twice.
2. If we do double before minus 1. Well, thats just not as good as first one

In another words, we should try to do all minus 1 before doubling to save "moves".
But what if the target can't be divided by 2(reach by doubling)? In that case, its necessary for us to double the value up to `target+1` and do another minus 1(this could happen multiple times on the way). Other than that we still prefer minus 1 first.
To get all the "necessary" minus 1s we need to perform. We will need to go backwards. We do plus 1 only when we can't be divided by 2. And we will stop once we are lower than start value. At which point, we need to count the optimal minus 1s at the start to get the total moves.

#### Algorithm

1. Start from end and do // 2 if num is even
2. Add 1 if num is odd
3. As soon as we are smaller than start, count the difference as minus 1s
4. Return total moves

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def brokenCalc(self, startValue: int, target: int) -> int:
        if startValue == target:
            return 0
        # can only subtract
        if startValue > target:
            return startValue-target
        # greedy, better to do division than plus 1
        ops = 0
        while target > startValue:
            if target%2==0:
                target//=2
            else:
                target+=1
            ops += 1
        return ops + startValue-target
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:**  `O(logn)` , We will be dividing target by 2 as much as we can

- **Space Complexity:**  `O(1)` , constant space
