
# 1047. Remove All Adjacent Duplicates In String

## Question

You are given a string  `s`  consisting of lowercase English letters. A  **duplicate removal**  consists of choosing two  **adjacent**  and  **equal**  letters and removing them.

We repeatedly make  **duplicate removals**  on  `s`  until we no longer can.

Return  _the final string after all such duplicate removals have been made_. It can be proven that the answer is  **unique**.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "abbaca"
**Output:** "ca"
**Explanation:**
For example, in "abbaca" we could remove "bb" since the letters are adjacent and equal, and this is the only possible move.  The result of this move is that the string is "aaca", of which only "aa" is possible, so the final string is "ca".

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "azxxzy"
**Output:** "ay"

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 105`
- `s`  consists of lowercase English letters.

## Solution

### Approach 1: Stack

#### Intuition

Keep visited chars in a stack. So we can remove duplicates as soon as we find.

In this specific question, we can just use a string but its the same idea.

#### Algorithm

1. Loop through each char in the string
2. Put each char into our res string and compare the recent two chars (current one and previous one). Remove duplicates if we can
3. After one pass, what's left is our answer

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def removeDuplicates(self, s: str) -> str:
        res = ''
        for char in s:
            # put current char in
            res += char
            if len(res)>=2:
                # check and remove duplicated
                # as soon as we have
                if res[-1] == res[-2]:
                    res = res[:-2]
        return res
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity:** O(n), one pass the string
  
- **Space Complexity:** O(n), Our res can go up to size n
