
  

# 27. Remove Element

  

  

## Question:

Given an array  _nums_  and a value  _val_, remove all instances of that value  [**in-place**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm)  and return the new length.

Do not allocate extra space for another array, you must do this by  **modifying the input array  [in-place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm)**  with O(1) extra memory.

The order of elements can be changed. It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the new length.

**Example 1:**

Given _nums_ = **[3,2,2,3]**, _val_ = **3**,

Your function should return length = **2**, with the first two elements of _nums_ being **2**.

It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the returned length.

**Example 2:**

Given _nums_ = **[0,1,2,2,3,0,4,2]**, _val_ = **2**,

Your function should return length = **`5`**, with the first five elements of _`nums`_ containing **`0`**, **`1`**, **`3`**, **`0`**, and **4**.

Note that the order of those five elements can be arbitrary.

It doesn't matter what values are set beyond the returned length.

**Clarification:**

Confused why the returned value is an integer but your answer is an array?

Note that the input array is passed in by  **reference**, which means modification to the input array will be known to the caller as well.

Internally you can think of this:

// **nums** is passed in by reference. (i.e., without making a copy)
int len = removeElement(nums, val);

// any modification to **nums** in your function would be known by the caller.
// using the length returned by your function, it prints the first **len** elements.
for (int i = 0; i < len; i++) {
    print(nums[i]);
}
## Solution:

  

**Approach 1: 2 pointers**

2 pointers: 1 start from beginning 1 start from the end. swap if needed. return the length of unique elements (till last toSwapPos) so + 1 in the end
```python
class Solution:
    def removeElement(self, nums: List[int], val: int) -> int:
        toSwapPos, i = len(nums)-1, 0
        while i <= toSwapPos:
            if nums[i] == val:
                nums[i], nums[toSwapPos] = nums[toSwapPos], nums[i]
                toSwapPos-=1
            else:
                i+=1
        return toSwapPos+1
```
**Complexity Analysis**

TC:O(n), 
  

SC:O(1) 
