
# 824. Goat Latin

  

  

## Question:

A sentence  `S`  is given, composed of words separated by spaces. Each word consists of lowercase and uppercase letters only.

We would like to convert the sentence to "_Goat Latin"_ (a made-up language similar to Pig Latin.)

The rules of Goat Latin are as follows:

-   If a word begins with a vowel (a, e, i, o, or u), append  `"ma"` to the end of the word.  
    For example, the word 'apple' becomes 'applema'.  
    
-   If a word begins with a consonant (i.e. not a vowel), remove the first letter and append it to the end, then add  `"ma"`.  
    For example, the word  `"goat"` becomes  `"oatgma"`.  
    
-   Add one letter  `'a'` to the end of each word per its word index in the sentence, starting with 1.  
    For example, the first word gets  `"a"`  added to the end, the second word gets  `"aa"`  added to the end and so on.

Return the final sentence representing the conversion from  `S` to Goat Latin.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** "I speak Goat Latin"
**Output:** "Imaa peaksmaaa oatGmaaaa atinLmaaaaa"

**Example 2:**

**Input:** "The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog"
**Output:** "heTmaa uickqmaaa rownbmaaaa oxfmaaaaa umpedjmaaaaaa overmaaaaaaa hetmaaaaaaaa azylmaaaaaaaaa ogdmaaaaaaaaaa"

Notes:

-   `S`  contains only uppercase, lowercase and spaces. Exactly one space between each word.
-   `1 <= S.length <= 150`.
## Solution:
**Approach 1: 2 pointers**
Not much here. `slow` points to start of word, `fast` point to space or the end of `S`.
Process each word and do our work in place. Is it through? The length of string is increase.
```python
class Solution:
    def toGoatLatin(self, S: str) -> str:
        slow, fast, aCount = 0, 0, 1
        S = S.strip()
        if S.isspace():
            return S
        while slow < len(S):
            if fast<len(S) and S[fast]!=" ":
                fast+=1
            else:
                curr = S[slow:fast]
                if curr[0].lower()=="a" or curr[0].lower()=="e" or curr[0].lower()=="i" or curr[0].lower()=="o" or curr[0].lower()=="u":
                    curr+="ma"
                else:
                    curr=curr[1:len(curr)]+curr[0:1]+"ma"
                curr+="a"*(aCount)
                aCount+=1
                S = S[0:slow]+curr+S[fast:len(S)]
                # skip the word and one space
                slow+=len(curr)+1
                fast=slow+1
        return S
```
Use some magic to make it one line:
```python
class Solution:
    def toGoatLatin(self, S: str) -> str:
        return ' '.join((w if w[0].lower() in 'aeiou' else w[1:] + w[0]) + 'ma' + 'a' * (i + 1) for i, w in enumerate(S.split()))
```

**Complexity Analysis**

**TC**
O(n) One pass

**SC**

O(1) In-place operation
