# 961. N-Repeated Element in Size 2N Array

  

## Question:

  In a array  `A`  of size  `2N`, there are  `N+1`  unique elements, and exactly one of these elements is repeated  `N`  times.

Return the element repeated  `N`  times.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** [1,2,3,3]
**Output:** 3

**Example 2:**

**Input:** [2,1,2,5,3,2]
**Output:** 2

**Example 3:**

**Input:** [5,1,5,2,5,3,5,4]
**Output:** 5

**Note:**

-   `4 <= A.length <= 10000`
-   `0 <= A[i] < 10000`
-   `A.length`  is even
  
  

## Solution:

  

**Approach 1: Sort**
Since half of elements are identical. We can sort the list and compare 1st and nth element.
If they are the same, the first half is the same element. Just return the value.
If they are not the same, either the second half are the same or half of elements in between first and last element are the same. But either way the (n+1)th element will be included in the identical half. So we can just return it.
```python
class Solution:
    def repeatedNTimes(self, A: List[int]) -> int:
        A.sort();
        if A[0] == A[len(A)//2-1]:
            return A[0]
        else:
            return A[len(A)//2]
```

**Complexity Analysis**

TC:O(n) built in sort function should visit all elements

SC:O(1) constant space

**Approach 2: Count**
Let's count the number of elements. We can use a  `HashMap`  or an array - here, we use a  `HashMap`.

After, the element with a count larger than 1 must be the answer.
```python
class Solution(object):
    def repeatedNTimes(self, A):
        count = collections.Counter(A)
        for k in count:
            if count[k] > 1:
                return k
```

**Complexity Analysis**

TC:O(n) all elements

SC:O(n) count hash map

**Approach 3:  Compare**
If we ever find a repeated element, it must be the answer. Let's call this answer the  _major element_.

Consider all subarrays of length 4. There must be a major element in at least one such subarray.

This is because either:

-   There is a major element in a length 2 subarray, or;
-   Every length 2 subarray has exactly 1 major element, which means that a length 4 subarray that begins at a major element will have 2 major elements.

Thus, we only have to compare elements with their neighbors that are distance 1, 2, or 3 away.
```python
class Solution(object):
    def repeatedNTimes(self, A):
        for k in range(1, 4):
            for i in range(len(A) - k):
                if A[i] == A[i+k]:
                    return A[i]
```

**Complexity Analysis**

TC:O(n) all elements

SC:O(1) constant space