
  

# 213. House Robber II

## Question:

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed. All houses at this place are  **arranged in a circle.**  That means the first house is the neighbor of the last one. Meanwhile, adjacent houses have security system connected and **it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into on the same night**.

Given a list of non-negative integers representing the amount of money of each house, determine the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight  **without alerting the police**.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** [2,3,2]
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** You cannot rob house 1 (money = 2) and then rob house 3 (money = 2),
             because they are adjacent houses.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** [1,2,3,1]
**Output:** 4
**Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).
             Total amount you can rob = 1 + 3 = 4.
## Solution:


**Approach 1: DP**
The DP relation here: `dp[i] = max(dp[i-1], dp[i-2]+num)` is the same with House Robber I. However, since we cant rob first and last house at the same time, we have three cases:
1. we robbed first house and maximize our profit while leaving last one
2. we robbed last house and maximize our profit while leaving first one
3. we robbed neither of them, just maximize our profit with the houses left (This will be discarded if we are able to include first or last house, since that will give a higher profit )
We already have the DP solution for House Robber I. The solution will give us the maximum profit while considering certain houses.
Thus we just need to apply it to `1st - (n-1)th` house and `2nd - nth` house, that will cover our 3 cases.
```python
class Solution:
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        if len(nums) == 0:
            return 0
        if len(nums) == 1:
            return nums[0]
        def robHelper(nums: List[int]) -> int:
            last, now = 0, 0
            for i in nums: last, now = now, max(last + i, now)
            return now
        # Before : is included
        # After : is not included
        return max(robHelper(nums[:len(nums)-1]),robHelper(nums[1:]))
```
Just pass index, didn't really improve run time:
```python
class Solution:
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        if len(nums) == 0:
            return 0
        if len(nums) == 1:
            return nums[0]
        def robHelper(start, end) -> int:
            last, now = 0, 0
            while start <= end:
                last, now = now, max(last + nums[start], now)
                start+=1
            return now
        # Before : is included
        # After : is not included
        return max(robHelper(0,len(nums)-2),robHelper(1,len(nums)-1))
```
**Complexity Analysis**
**TC** 
O(n​) One pass

**SC** 
O(1) Constant space
