
  

# 297. Serialize and Deserialize Binary Tree

  

  

## Question:

  

Serialization is the process of converting a data structure or object into a sequence of bits so that it can be stored in a file or memory buffer, or transmitted across a network connection link to be reconstructed later in the same or another computer environment.

Design an algorithm to serialize and deserialize a binary tree. There is no restriction on how your serialization/deserialization algorithm should work. You just need to ensure that a binary tree can be serialized to a string and this string can be deserialized to the original tree structure.

**Example:**

You may serialize the following tree:

    1
   / \
  2   3
     / \
    4   5

as `"[1,2,3,null,null,4,5]"`

**Clarification:**  The above format is the same as  [how LeetCode serializes a binary tree](https://leetcode.com/faq/#binary-tree). You do not necessarily need to follow this format, so please be creative and come up with different approaches yourself.

**Note:** Do not use class member/global/static variables to store states. Your serialize and deserialize algorithms should be stateless.
## Solution:

  

**Approach 1: Recursion**
First idea come to my mind is to serialize into the "Leetcode" way. But it requires to complete the tree first to the depth of the tree. And then DFS the tree for the preorder. We need to do the exact opposite in deserialize. So its just double the pain.
If we take a look at definition for binary tree node:
```
# Definition for a binary tree node.
# class TreeNode(object):
#     def __init__(self, x):
#         self.val = x
#         self.left = None
#         self.right = None
```
.The left and right are default to be None. And we are not required to serialize into the "Leetcode" way.
Therefore we can just DFS preorderly while including the None children to serialize.
Same thing for the deserialize, just set the child as None.

```python
class Codec:
    def serialize(self, root):
        def doit(node):
			# If we have node
            if node:
	            # preoder
                vals.append(str(node.val))
                doit(node.left)
                doit(node.right)
            # If we have None child
            else:
                vals.append('#')
        vals = []
        doit(root)
        return ' '.join(vals)

    def deserialize(self, data):
        def doit():
            val = next(vals)
            # None child, just return
            if val == '#':
                return None
            # Create tree node with the value
            # Same preoder to recreate the tree
            node = TreeNode(int(val))
            node.left = doit()
            node.right = doit()
            return node
        vals = iter(data.split())
        return doit()
```

  

**Complexity Analysis**

  

TC:O(n) goes through every node

  

SC:O(n) recursion stack

---

 